774

PUBLIC LAW 93-198-DEC. 24, 1973

Public Law 93-198

-

[87 STAT.

-

AN A C T
December 24, 1973
To reorganize t h e governmental s t r u c t u r e of the District of Columbia, to provide
[S. 1435]
a charter for local government in the District of Columbia subject to acceptance
by a majority of the registered qualilled electors in the District of Columbia, to
delegate certain legislative powers to the local government, to implement
certain recommendations of the Commission on the Organization of the Government of the District of Columbia, and for other purposes.
District of
Columbia SelfGovemment and
Governmental Reorganization Act.

Be it enacted hy the Senate and House of Refvesentatives of the
United States of Amenca m Congress assembled,
TABLE OF CONTENTS
TITLE I—SHORT TITLE, PURPOSES, AND D E F I N I T I O N S
Sec. 101. Short title.
Sec. 1()2. Statement of puiiwues.
Sec. 103. Deflnitions.
T I T L E II—GOVERNMENTAL
Sec.
Sec.
Sec.
Sec.

201.
202.
203.
204.

REORGANIZATION

Redevelopment Land Agency.
National t'apital Housing Authority.
National Capital Planning Commission and municipal planning.
District of Columbia Manpower Administration.

T I T L E I I I — D I S T R I C T C H A R T E R I>RBAMBLE, L E G I S L A T I V E POWER,
AND C H A R T E R AMENDING P R O C E D U R E
Sec. 301. District Charter preamble.
Sec. 302. Legislative power.
Sec. 303. Charter amending procedure.

j

TITLE IV—THE DISTRICT CHARTER
PART A — T H E COUNCIL

Subpart 1—Creation of the Council
Sec.
See.
Sec.
Sec.

401.
402.
403.
404.

Creation and membership.
Qualifications for holding office.
Compensation.
Powers of the Council.

.,

, ,

Subpart 2—Organization and Procedure of the Council
Sec. 411. The Chairman.
Sec. 412. Acts, resolutions, and requirements for quorum.
Sec. 413. Investigations by the Council.
PART B — T H E

MAYOR

Sec. 421. Election, qualifications, vacancy and compensation.
Sec. 422. Powers and duties.
Sec. 423. Municipal planning.
PART C — T H E

Sec.
Sec.
Sec.
Sec.

431.
432.
433.
4.34.

JUDICIARY

.Judicial power.s.
Removal, suspension, and involuntary retirement.
Nomination and appointment of judges.
District of Coliun))ia Judicial Nomination Commission.

87 STAT. ]

PUBLIC LAW 93-198-DEC. 24, 1973

775

IWBLE OF CONTENTS- ('oDtimiHl
I'AKT D—DlHTRK T BUDGET AND FiNANOIAL M A N AflKM KNI'

Soc.
Sec.
Sec.
Sec.
Sec.
Sec.
Sec.
Sec.
Sec.
Sec.
Sec.
Sec.

441.
44.2.
443.
444.
445.
446.
447.
448.
449.
450.
451.
452.

Subpart l-Riulget and Finnndnl MnnngoniPiif,
Fiscal year.
Submission of annual budget.
Multlyear plan.
Multlyear capital Improvements plan,
District of Columbia courts' budget.
Enactment of appropriations by Congress.
Consistency of budget, accounting, and personnel syslcms.
Financial duties of the Mayor.
Accounting supervision and control.
General and special funds.
Contracts extending beyond one year.
Annual budget for the Board of Education.
Subpart 2—Audit

Sec. 455. District of Columbia Auditor.
PART E—BOBROWING

Subpart 1—Borrowing
sec. 461. District's authority to issue and redeem genonil ohliyHiioii bomls for
capital projects.
Sec. 462. Contents of borrowing legislation.
Sec. 463. Publication of borrowing legislation.
Sec. 464. Short period of limitation.
Sec. 465. Actsfor issuance of general obligation bonds.
See. 466. Public sale.
Subpart 2—Short-Term Bovrownip:
Sec.
Sec.
Sec.
Sec.

471.
472.
478.
474.

Borrowing to meet appropriations.
Borrowing in anticipation of revenues.
Notes redeemable prior to maturity.
Sales of notes.
Subpart .'i- Payments of Bonds and Xotcs

Sec. 481. Special tax.
Subpart 4—Tax Exemption; Legal Investment; Water Pollntion: Resejvoirs;
Metro Contributions; and Revenue Bonds
Sec.
Sec.
Sec.
Sec.
Sec.

485.
486.
487.
488.
489.

Tax exemption.
Legal investment.
Water pollution.
Cost of reservoirs on Potomac River.
District's contributions to the Washington MetropolitHn Area Ti-«nsit
Authority,
Sec. 490. Revenue bonds and other obligations.

Sec.
Sec.
Sec.
Sec.
Sec.

491.
492.
493.
494.
495.

PART F—INDEPENDENT AGENCIES

Board of Elections.
Zoning Commission.
Public Service Commission.
Armory Board.
Board of Education.

'^''^

TITLE V—FEDERAL PAYMENT
Sec. 501. Duties of the Mayor, Council, and Federal OfBce of Management mid
Budget.
Sec. 502. Authorization of appropriations.
TITLE VI—RESERVATION OF CONGRESSIONAL AUTHORITY
Sec.
Sec.
Sec.
Sec.

601.
602.
603.
604.

Retention of constitutional authority.
Limitations on the Council.
Budget process; limitations on borrowing and spending.
Congressional action on certain District matters.

776

PUBLIC LAW 93-198-DEC. 24, 1973

[87 STAT.

TABLE OF CONTENTS—Continued
T I T L E V I I — R E F E R E N D U M ; SUCCESSION I N G O V E R N M E N T ; TEMPORARY P R O V I S I O N S ; M I S C E L L A N E O U S ; AMENDMENTS TO D I S T R I C T
OF COLUMBIA E L E C T I O N A C T ; R U L E S OF C O N S T R U C T I O N ; AND
EFFECTIVE DATES
PART A — C H A B T E B

Sec.
Sec.
Sec.
Sec.

701.
702.
703.
704.

Sec.
Sec.
Sec.
Sec.
Sec.
Sec.

REFERENDUM

Referendum.
Board of Elections authority.
Referendum ballot and notice of voting.
Acceptance or nonacceptance of Charter.

711.
712.
713.
714.
715.
716.

PART B — S U C C E S S I O N I N

GOVERNMENT

Abolishment of existing government and transfer of functions.
Certain delegated functions and functions of certain agencies.
Transfer of personnel, property, and funds.
Existing statutes, regulations, and other actions.
Pending actions and proceedings.
Vacancies resulting from abolishment of offices of Commissioner and
Assistant to the Commissioner,
Sec. 717. Status of the District.
Sec. 718. Continuation of District of Columbia court system.
Sec. 719. Continuation of the Board of Education.
PART C—TEMPORARY PROVISIONS

Sec. 721. Powers of the President during transitional period.
Sec. 722. Reimbursable appropriations for the District.
Sec. 723. Interim loan authority.
PART D — M I S C E L L A N E O U S

Sec.
Sec.
Sec.
Sec.

731
732
733
734.

Sec.
Ses.
Sec.
Sec.
Sec.
Sec.
Sec.
Sec.
Sec.

735
736.
737.
'(38
739.
740.
741.
742.
743.

Agreements with United States.
Personal interest in contracts or transactions.
Compensation from more t h a n one source.
Assistance of the United States Civil Service Commission in development of District merit system.
Revenue sharing restrictions.
Independent audit.
f>s^.-.i^';''
Adjustments.
Advisory neighborhood councils.
National Capital Service Area.
Emergency control of police.
'. , >
' ..'
Holding office in the District.
Open meetings.
Termination of the District's authority to borrow from the Treasury.

PART E — A M E N D M E N T S TO T H E D I S T R I C T OF COLUMBIA ELECTION A C T

Sec. 751. Amendments.
Sec. 752. District Council authority over elections.
P A R T F — R U L E S OF CONSTRUCTION

Sec. 761. Construction.
PART G — E F F E C T I V E DATES

Sec. 771. Effective dates.

TITLE I—SIIOKT TITLE, PURPOSES, AND DEFINITIONS
• •••

SHORT TITLE

^

*

'

SEC. 101. This Act may be cited as the "District of Columbia SelfGovernment and Governmental Reorganization Act".

87 STAT. ]

PUBLIC LAW 93-198-DEC. 24, 1973
STATEMENT

OF

777

PURPOSES

SEC. 102. (a) Subject to the retention by Congress of the ultimate
legislative authority over the Nation's Capital granted by article I,
section 8, of the Constitution, the intent of Congress is to delegate cer- ^ use prec. title
tain legislative powers to the government of the District of Columbia:
authorize the election of certain local officials by the registered
qualified electors in the District of Columbia; grant to the inhabitants of the Dist]"ict of Columbia powers of local self-government;
to modernize, reorganize, and otherwise improve the governmental
structure of the District of Columbia; and, to the greatest extent possible, consistent with the constitutional mandate, relieve Congress of
the burden of legislating upon essentially local District matters.
(b) Congress further intends to implement certain recommendations of the Commission on the Organization of the Government of
the District of Columbia and take certain other actions irrespective
of whether the charter for greater self-government provided for in
title I V of this Act is accepted or rejected by the registered qualified
electors of the District of Columbia.
DEFIXITIONS

SEC. 103. For the purposes of this Act—
(1) The term "District" means the District of Columbia.
(2) The term "Council" means the Council of the District of Columbia provided for by part A of title IV.
(3) The term "Commissioner" means the Commissioner of the District of Columbia established under Reorganization Plan Numbered 3
of 1967.
(4) The term "District of Columbia Council" means the Council of
the District of Columbia established under Reorganization Plan Numbered 3 of 1967.
81Stat^948.
(5) The term "Chairman" means, unless otherwise provided in this
D.^^'code i""
Act, the Chairman of the Council provided for by part A of title IV. ^pp.
(6) The term "Mayor" means the Mavor provided for by part B of
title IV.
(7) The term "act" includes any legislation passed by the Council,
except where the term "Act" is used to refer to this Act or other Acts
of Congress herein specified.
(8) The term "capital project" means (A) any physical pubHc betterment or improvement and any preliminary studies and surveys relative thereto; (B) the acquisition of property of a permanent nature;
or (C) the purchase of equipment for any public betterment or
improvement when first erected or acquired.
(9) The term "pending", when applied to any capital project,
means authorized but not yet completed.
(10) The term "District revenues" means all funds derived from
taxes, fees, charges, and miscellaneous receipts, including all annual
Federal payments to the District authorized by law, and from the sale
of bonds.
(11) The term "election", unless the context otherwise provides,
means an election held pursuant to the provisions of this Act.
(12) The terms "publish" and "publication", unless otherwise
specifically provided herein, mean publication in a newspaper of general circulation in the District.
(13) The term "District of Columbia courts" means the Superior
Court of the District of Columbia and the District of Columbia Court
of Appeals.

778

PUBLIC LAW 93-198-DEC. 24, 1973

[87

STAT.

(14) The term "resources" means revenues, balances, revolving
funds, funds realized from borrowing, and the District share of Federal grant programs.
(15) The term "budget" means the entire request for appropriations and loan or spending authority for all activities of all agencies
of the District financed from all existing or proposed resources and
shall include both operating and capital expenditures.
TITLE II—GOVERNMENTAL REOEGANIZATION
REDEVELOPMENT LAND AGENCY

60 Stat. 793.

D.C. government authority.

Factfinding
board.

SEC. 201. The District of Columbia Redevelopment Act of 1945
(D.C. Code, sees. 5-701—5-719) is amended as follows:
(a) Subsection (a) of section 4 of such Act (D.C. Code, sec. 5-703
(a)) is amended to read as follows:
" ( a ) The District of Columbia Redevelopment Land Agency is
hereby established as an instrumentality of the District of Columbia
government, and shall be composed of five members appointed by the
Commissioner of the District of Columbia (hereinafter referred to as
the 'Commissioner'), with the advice and consent of the Council of
the District of Columbia (hereinafter referred to as the 'Council').
The Commissioner shall name one member as chairman. No more than
two members may be officers of the District of Columbia government.
Each member shall serve for a term of five years except that of the
members first appointed under this section, one shall serve for a term
of one year, one shall serve for a term of two years, one shall serve for
a term of three years, one shall serve for a term of four years, and one
shall serve for a term of five years, as designated by the Commissioner.
The terms of the members first appointed under this section shall begin
on or after January 2,1975. Should any member who is an officer of the
District of Columbia government cease to be such an officer, then his
term as a member shall end on the day he ceases to be such an officer.
Any person appointed to fill a vacancy in the Agency shall be
appointed to serve for the remainder of the term during which such
vacancy arose. Any member who holds no other salaried public position shall receive compensation at the rate of $100 for each da)^ such
member is engaged in the actual performance of duties vested in the
agency."
(b) Subsection (b) of section 4 of such Act (D.C. Code, sec. 5-703
(b)) is amended—
(1) by inserting after "forth" at the end of the first sentence of such section ", except that nothing in this section shall prohibit the District of Columbia government from dissolving the
corporation, eliminating the board of directors, or taking such
other action with respect to the powers and duties of such Agency,
including those actions specified in subsection (c), as is deemed
necessary and appropriate", and
(2) bj^ striking out in the second sentence "including the selection of its chairman and other officers," and inserting in lieu
thereof "including the selection of officers other than its
chairman,".
(c) Section 4 of such Act is amended by adding at the end thereof
the following new subsection:
"(c) The Council is authorized, by act, to adopt legislation—
"(1) establishing, for the purpose of assuring uniform procedures relating to the disposition of complaints and other claims
involving the Redevelopment Land Agency (or its successor) and
other administrative units of the District of Columbia govern-

87 STAT. ]

PUBLIC LAW 93-198-DEC. 24, 1973

779

ment, a factfinding board to receive, hear, and act on such
complaints and claims arising out of or in connection with administrative and other actions of such Agency or units in carrying out
their powers and functions;
"(2) providing that all planning, designing, construction, and
supervision of public facilities which are to be contributed to any
redevelopment area as the local non-cash grant-in-aid to the project under title I of the Housing Act of 1949, shall, to the extent
es stat. 622.
practicable, be carried out by an appropriate District of Columbia
'*^ "^^ ^*'°"
department or agency on the basis of a contractual or other
arrangement with the Redevelopment Land Agency or its
successor;
"(3) providing that any occupied rental property owned by
the Agency shall be maintained by such Agency (or its successor)
in a safe and sanitary condition; or
"(4) providing that the Commissioner shall have authority to
waive all or any part of any special assessments levied against
abutting property owners for the cost of sewers, streets, curbs,
gutters, sidewalks, utilities, and other supporting facilities or
project improvements where the costs therefor to the District
of Columbia can be applied as a non-cash local grant-in-aid, as
defined by the Secretary of the Department of Housing and
Urban Development.".
(d) The first sentence of subsection (b) of section 5 of such Act
(D.C. Code, sec. 5-704(b)) is amended to read as follows "Condemna- ** ^*'*- ^87.
tion proceedings for the acquisition of real property fof said purposes
shall be conducted in accordance with subchapter I I of chapter 13
of title 16 of the District of Columbia Code.".
D.C. code le(e) None of the amendments contained in this section shall be con- ^
strued to affect the eligibility of the District of Columbia Redevelopment Land Agency to continue participation in the small business
procurement programs under section 8(a) of the Small Business Act
(67 Stat. 547).
72 stat. 389.
(f) For the purposes of subsection 713(d), employees in the Dis- po^tf p. 819.
trict of Columbia Redevelopment Land Agency shall be deemed to be
transferred to the District of Columbia as of the effective date of this
title without a break in service.
N A T I O N A L CAPITAL H O U S I N G

AUTHORITY

SEC. 202. (a) The National Capital Housing Authority (hereinafter referred to as the "Authority") established under the District
of Columbia Alley Dwelling Act (D.C. Code, sees. 5-103—5-116) ,/|,fJ^^V,^30;
shall be an agency of the District of Columbia government subject to 52 Stat. 1186.
the organizational and reorganizational powers specified in sections
404(b) and 422(12) of this Act.
(b) All functions, powers, and duties of the President under the
District of Columbia Alley Dwelling Act shall be vested in and exercised by the Commissioner. All employees, property (real and personal), and unexpended balances (available or to be made available)
of appropriations, allocations, and all other funds, and assets and liabilities of the Authority are authorized to be transferred to the District
of Cohimbia government.
N A T I O N A L CAPITAL P L A N N I N G C O M M I S S I O N A N D M U N I C I P A L P L A N N I N G

SEC. 203. (a) Subsections (a) and (b) of section 2 of the Act entitled
"An Act providing for a comprehensive development of the park and

780
lis^'^'t. 782;
40 use 71a.
Federal planning agency.

60 Stat. 718;
^^D.cVcodeg^^n'r?'lfif^„.„

D.C. planning
agency

PUBLIC LAW 93-198-DEC. 24, 1973

[87 STAT.

playground systc^m of tlic Xational Capital", approved June 6, 1924
(j).(T. Code, sec. 1-1002), ai'e amended to read as follows:
" ( a ) ( 1 ) The National Capital Planning Commission (hereinafter
referred to as the 'Commission') is created as the central Federal plan^^^^^^ ageucj for the P^ederal Government in the National Capital, and
to preserve the important historical and natural features thereof,
except with respect to the United States Capitol buildings and grounds
as defined in sections 1 and 16 of the Act of July 31, 1946 (40 U.S.C.
193a, 193m), and to any extension thereof or additions thereto, or to
buildings and grounds under the care of the Architect of the Capitol.
"(^) The Commissioner of the District of Columbia (hereinafter
referred to as the 'Commissioner') shall be the central planning agency
Tor the government of the District of Columbia (hereinafter referred
to as the 'District") in the National Capital. The Commissioner shall
be responsible for coordinating the planning activities of the District
government and foi- prepai'ing and implementing the District elements
of the comprehensive plan for the National Capital, which may include
land use elements, urban renewal and redevelopment elements, a multiyear program of public works for the District, and physical, social,
economic, tr-anspoi-tatioii, and population elements. The Commissioner's planning responsibility shall not extend to Federal or international projects and developments in the District, as detennined by
the Commission, oi- to the United States Capitol buildings and grounds
as defined in sections 1 and 16 of the Act of July 31, 1946 (40 U.S.C.
193a, 193m), or to any extension thereof or additions thereto, or to
buildings and grounds under the care of the Architect of the Capitol.
In carrying out his I'esponsibility under this section, the Commissioner shall establish pi-ocedures for citizen participation in the planning process, and for- appropriate meaningful consultation with any
State or local government or planning agency in the National Capital
region affected by any aspect of a comprehensive plan (including
amendments thereto) affecting or relating to the District.
''(3) The Commissioner shall submit each District element of the
compr-ehensive plan and any amendment thereto, to the Council for
levision or modification, and adoption, by act, following public heai-ings. Following adoptiou and prior to implementation, the Council
shall submit each such element or- amendment to the Commission for
review and comment with regard to the impact of such element or
amendment on the intei-ests or functions of the Federal Establishment
in the National (^apital.
"(4) (A) The Commission shall, within sixty days after receipt
of such a District element of the compr-ehensive plan, or amendment
thereto, from the Council, cer-tify to the Comicil whether such element
or amendment has a negative impact on the interests or functions of
the Federal Establishment in the National Capital. If within such
sixty days the Commission takes no action with respect to such element
or amendment, such element or amendment shall be deemed to have
no such negative impact, and such element or amendment shall be
incorporated into the comprehensive plan for- the National Capital
and shall be implemented.
'" (B) If the Comruission finds, Avithin such sixty days, such negative
impact, it shall certify its findings and r-ecommendations with respect
to such negative impact to the Council. Upon receipt of the Commission's findings and recommendations, the Council may—
"(i) r-eject such findings and recommendations and resubmit
such element or amendment, in a modified form, to tlie Commission for r^econsideration; or
"(ii) accei)t such findings and r-ecommendations and modify
such elemenr or- amendment ac-cordinglv.

87 STAT. ]

PUBLIC LAW 93-198-DEC. 24, 1973

781

If the Council accepts such findings and recommendations and modifies such element or amendment under clause (ii),_the Council shall
submit such element or amendment to the Commission for it to determine whether such modification has been made in accordance with the
Commission's findings and recommendations. If, within thirty^ days
after receipt of the modified element or amendment, the Commission
takes no action with respect to such element or amendment, it shall
be deemed to have been modified in accordance with such findings or
recommendations, and shall be incorporated into the comprehensive
plan for the National Capital and shall be imj)lemented. If within
such thirty days, the Commission again determines such element or
amendment to have a negative impact on the functions or interests of
the Federal Establishment in the National Capital such element or
amendment shall not be implemented.
" ( C ) If the Council rejects the findings and recommendations of
the Commission and resubmits a modified element or amendment to
it under clause (i), the Commission shall, within sixty days after
receipt of such modified element or amendment from the Council,
determine whether such modified element or amendment has a negative
impact on the interests or functions of the Federal Establishment
within the National Capital. If the Commission finds such negative
impact it shall certify its findings (in sufficient detail that the Council
can understand the basis of the objection of the Commission) and
recommendations to the Council, and such element or amendment
shall not be implemented. If the Commission takes no action with
respect to such modified element or amendment within such sixty days,
such modified element or amendment shall be deemed to have no such
negative impact and shall be incorporated into the comprehensive
plan and it shall be implemented. Any element or amendment which
the Commission has determined to have a negative impact on the
Federal Establishment in the National Capital, and which is submitted again in a modified form not less than one year from the
day it was last rejected by the Commission shall be deemed to be a
new element or amendment for purposes of the review procedure
specified in this section.
" ( D ) The Commission and the Commissioner shall jointly publish, cition^of'piin.
from time to time as appropriate, a comprehensive plan for the
National Capital, consisting of the elements of the comprehensive plan
for the Federal activities in the National Capital developed by the
Commission, and the District elements developed by the Commissioner
and the Council in accordance with the provisions of this section.
" ( E ) The Council may grant, upon request made to it by the Com- "^^""^ iimitamission, an extension of any time limitation contained in this section. autho^ritJ?^*°"'
" ( F ) The Commission and the Commissioner shall jointly establish
procedures for appropriate meaningful continuing consultation
throughout the planning process for the National Capital.
" (b) The National Capital Planning Commission shall be composed
of—
"(1) ex officio, the Secretary of the Interior, the Secretary of
Defense, the Administrator of the General Services Administration, the Commissioner, the Chairman of the District of Columbia Council, and the chairmen of the Committees on the District
of Columbia of the Senate and the House of Eepresentatives, or
such alternates as each such person may from time to time designate to serve in his stead, and in addition,
"(2) five citizens with experience in city or regional planning,
three of whom shall be appointed by the President and two of
whom shall be appointed by the Commissioner. The citizen mem-

782

PUBLIC LAW 93-198-DEC. 24, 1973

[87 STAT.

bers appointed by the Commissioner shall be bona fide residents
of the District of Columbia and of the three appointed by the
President at least one shall be a bona fide resident of Virginia
and at least one shall be a bona fide resident of Maryland. The
terms of office of members appointed by the President shall be for
six years, except that of the members first appointed, the President shall designate one to serve two years and one to serve four
years. Members appointed by the Commissioner shall serve for
four years. The members first appointed under this section shall
assume their office on January 2,1975. Any person appointed to fill
a vacancy shall be appointed only for the unexpired term of the
member whom he shall succeed. The citizen members shall each
receive compensation at the rate of $100 for each day such member is engaged in the actual performance of duties vested in the
Commission in addition to reimbursement for necessary expenses
incurred by them in the performance of such duties.",
(b) Subsection (e) of section 2 of such Act of June 6, 1924 (D.C.
40 ^^*^'n»' Code, sec. l-1002(e)), is amended by (1) inserting "Federal activities
use a.
.^ ^j^^„ ijjjjjjgjjiately before "National Capital" in clause ( 1 ) ; and (2)
striking out "and District Governments, and inserting in lieu thereof
"government" in clause (2).
40 use 71c.
(c) Section 4 of such Act of June 6, 1924 (D.C. Code, sec. 1-1004),
is amended as follows:
(1) The first sentence of subsection (a) of such section is amended
to read as follows: "The Commission is hereby charged with the dut^
of preparing and adopting a comprehensive, consistent, and coordinated plan for the NationalCapital, which plan shall include the Commission's recommendations or proposals for Federal developments or
projects in the environs, and those District elements, or amendments
thereto, of the compreliensive plan adopted by the Council and with
respect to which the Commission has not determined a negative impact
to exist, which elements or amendments shall be incorporated into
such comprehensive plan Avithout change.".
(2) The third sentence of subsection (a) of such section is amended
by striking out "within the District of Columbia" and "or District".
Repeals.
(3) Subsectious (b) aiid (c) of such section are repealed.
40 use 7id.
^ ((I) Section 5 of such Act of June 6, 1924 (D.C. Code, sec. 1-1005),
is amended as follows:
(1) Subsection (c) of such section is amended to read as follows:
"(c) The provisions of section 16 of the Act approved June 20,1938
52 Stat. 802.
(D.C. Code, sec. 5-428), are extended to include public buildings
erected by any agency of the Government of the District of Columbia
within the boundaries of the central area of the District, as such central area may be defined and from time to time redefined by concurrent action of the Commission and the Council, except that the
Commission shall transmit its approval or disapproval respecting any
such buildinjS? within thirty days after the day it was submitted to
the Commission.".
Federal Gov(2) The first aud sccoud sentences of subsection (e) of such section
co"operItro^n."^'^^' ^^^ amended to read as follows: "It is the intent of this section to
obtain cooperation and correlation of effort between the various agencies of the Federal Government which are responsible for public
developments and projects, including the acquisition of land. These
agencies, therefore, shall look to the Commission and utilize it as the
central planning agency for the Federal activities in the National
Capital region.".
Repeal.
(e) Section 6 of such Act (D.C. Code, sec. 1-1006) is repealed.
40 use 7ie;
(f) Section 7 of such Act (D.C. Code, sec. 1-1007) is amended to
7If.
read as follows:

87

STAT.]

783

PUBLIC LAW 93-198-DEC. 24, 1973

"SEC. 7. (a) Tlie Commission shall recommend a six-year program
of public works projects for the Federal Government which it shall
review amnuilly with the agencies concerned. To this end, each Federal
agency shall submit to the Commission in the fii-st quarter of each
fiscal year a copy of its advance program of capital improvements
within the National Capital and its environs.
"(b) The Commissioner shall submit to the Commis-'sion, by February 1 of each year, a copy of the multiyear capital improvements
plan for the District develoi)ed by him under section 444 of the District
of Columbia Self-Government and Govei-nmental Reoi'ganization Act.
The Commission shall have thirty days within which to comment upon
such plan but shall have no authority to change or disapprove of such
plan."
(g) The first sentence of subsection (a) of section 8 of such Act of
June 6, 1924 (D.C. Code, sec. 1-1008(a)), is amended to read as follows: "The Commission may make a report and recommendation to
the Zoning Commission of the District of Columbia, as provided in
section 5 of the Act of March 1,1920 (D.C. Code, sec. 5-417), on proposed amendments of the zoning regulations and maps as to the
relation, conformity, or consistency of such amendments Avith the
comprehensive plan for the Xational Capital."

Public works
projects.

Multiyear capital improvements
plan, submittal to
Commission.
Post,

p . 800.

66 Stat. 790.
40 u s e 71g.

52 Stat. 7<)8.

DIS'J'RICT OF COLUMBIA MAXI'OWKK A D M I M S T R A T I O X

SKC. 204. (a) All functions of the Seci'etai-y of Labor (hereafter
in this section referred to as the "Seci-etary") under section 3 of the
Act entitled "An Act to provide for the establishment of a national
employment system and for cooi)ei'ation with the States in the promotion of sucli system, and for other purposes'', approved June 6,
1983 (29 U.S.C. 49-49k), Avith respect to the maintenance of a public
employment service for the District, are transfen-ed to the Commissioner. After the effective date of this transfer, the Secretary shall
maintain with the District the same relationship with respect to a
l)iiblic employment service in the District, including the financing of
such service, as he has with the States (with respect to a public
em])loyment service in the States) generally.
(b) The Commissioner is authorized and directed to establish and
administer a public employment service in the District and to that end
he shall have all necessary powers to cooperate wnth the Secretary in
the same manner as a State under the Act of June 6, 1933, specified
in subsection .(a).
(c) (1) Section 3(a) of the Act entitled "An Act to provide for the
establishment of a national employment system and for coo])eration
Avith the States in the promotion of such system, and for other purposes", approved June 6,1933 (29 I"^.S.C. 49b ( a ) ) , is amended by striking out "to maintain a public employment service for the District of
Cohimbia".
(2) Section 3(b) of such Act (29 U.S.C. 49b(b)) is amended by
inserting "the District of Columbia," immediately after "Guam,".
(d) All functions of the Secretary and of tlie Director of Apprenticeship under the Act entitled "An Act to provide for voluntary apprenticeship in the District of Columbia", approved May 20, 1946 (D.C.
Code, sees. 36-121—36-133), ai'e transferred to and shall be exercised
by the Commissioner. The office of Director of Apprenticeship provided for in section 3 of such Act (D.C. Code, sec. 36-123) is abolished.
(e) All functions of the Secretary under cliapter 81 of title 5 of the
United States Code, with respect to the processing of claims filed by
employees of the government of the District for compensation for work
injuries, are transferred to and shall be exercised by the Commissioner,

48 Stat. 113;
53 Stat. 1409;
68 Stat. 665.

Public employment s e r v i c e .

70 Stat. 910.

60 Stat. 204;
84 Stat. 583.

5 u s e 8101,

784

rl'er^*' °^
proper y.

50 Stat. 664.
"State."

PUBLIC LAW 93.198-DEC. 24, 1973

[87 STAT.

effective the day after the day on which the District establishes an
independent personnel system or systems,
^^^ ®° much of the personnel, property, records, and unexpended
balances of appropriations, allocations, and other funds employed,
held, used, available, or to be made available in connection -with functions transferred to the Commisisoner by the provisions of this section,
as the Director of the Federal Office of Management and Budget shall
determine, are authorized to be transferred from the Secretary to the
Commissioner.
(g) Any employee in the competitive service of the United States
transferred to the government of the District under the provisions
of this section shall retain all the rights, benefits, and privileges pertaining thereto held prior to such transfer. When such an employee
vacates the position into which he was transferred, such position shall
no longer be a position in such competitive service.
(h) The first section of the Act of August 16, 1937 (29 U.S.C. 50
et seq.) (relating to the welfare of apprentices) j is amended by inserting at the end thereof "For the purposes of this Act the term 'State'
shall include the District of Columbia.".
TITLE III—DISTKICT CHARTER PREAMBLE, LEGISLAT I V E P O W E R , AND C H A R T E R A M E N D I N G P R O C E DURE
DISTRICT

Post, p. 785.

CHARTER

SEC. 301. The charter for the District of Columbia set forth in
^^^|g j y gj^a^jj establish the means of governance of the District fol-'
lowing its acceptance by a majority of the registered qualified electors
of the District voting thereon in the charter referendum held with
respect thereto.
LEGISLATIVE

Post. pp. 813,
'^'**

PREAMBLE

POWER

gjj^_ 3Q2. Except as provided in sections 601, 602, and 603, the legislative power of the District shall extend to all rightful subjects of
legislation within the District consistent with the Constitution of the
United States and the provisions of this Act subject to all the restrictions and limitations imposed upon the States by the tenth section of
the first article of the Constitution of the United States.
CHARTER A M E N D I N G

PROCEDURE

SEC. 303. (a) The charter set forth in title I V (including any provision of law amended by such title), except sections 401(a) and 421
(a), and part C of such title, may be amended by an act passed by
the Council and ratified by a majority of the registered qualified
electors of the District voting in the referendum held for such ratification. The Chairman of the Council shall submit all such acts to the
Speaker of the House of Representatives and the President of the Senate on the day the Board of Elections certifies that such act was ratified
by a majority of the registered qualified electors voting thereon in such
referendum.
(b) An amendment to the charter ratified by the registered qualified
electors shall take effect only if within thirty-five calendar days
(excluding Saturdays, Sundays, holidays, and days on which either
House of Congress is not in session) of the date such amendment was
submitted to the Congress both Houses of Congress adopt a concurrent
resolution, according to the procedures specified in section 604 of
this Act, approving such amendment.

87 STAT. ]

PUBLIC LAW 93-198-DEC. 24, 1973

(c) The Board of Elections shall prescribe such rules as are necessary with respect to the distribution and signing of petitions and the
holding of elections for ratifying amendments to title I V of this Act
according to the procedures specified in subsection (a).
(d) The amending procedure provided in this section m a v n o t be
used to enact any law or affect any law with respect to which the
Council may not enact any act, resolution, or rule under the limitations
specified in sections 601,602, and 603.
*

'

785

^
^°^*' PP- " 3 .
814.

TITLE IV—THE DISTRICT CHARTER
PART A — T H E

COUNCIL

Subpart 1—Creation of the Council
CREATION A N D MEMBERSHIP

SEC. 401. (a) There is established a Council of the District of ^f^bersl?"""*'
Columbia; and the members of the Council shall be elected by the ""'"" ° " ^'
registered qualified electors of the District.
(b) (1) The Council established under subsection (a) shall consist
of thirteen members elected on a partisan basis. The Chairman and
four members shall be elected at large in the District, and eight members shall be elected one each from the eight election wards established,
from time to time, under the District of Columbia Election Act. The 69 stat. 699.
D.C. Code 1term of office of the members of the Council shall be four years, except 1101
note.
as provided in paragraph (3), and shall begin at noon on January 2
of the year following their election.
(2) I n the case of the first election held for the office of member
of the Council after the effective date of this title, not more than two
of the at-large members (excluding the Chairman) shall be nominated
by the same political party. Thereafter, a political party may nominate a number of candidates for the office of at-large member of the
Council equal to one less than the total number of at-large members
(excluding the Chairman) to be elected in such election.
(3) Of the members first elected after the effective date of this
title, the Chairman and two members elected at-large and four of
the members elected from election wards shall serve for four-year
terms; and two of the at-large members and four of the members
elected from election wards shall serve for two-year terms. The members to serve the four-year terms and the members to serve the twoyear terms shall be determined by the Board of Elections by lot,
except that not more than one of the at-large members nominated by
any political party shall serve for any such four-year term.
(c) The Council may establish and select such other officers and
employees as it deems necessary and appropriate to carry out the functions of the Council.
( d ) ( 1 ) In the event of a vacancy in the Council of a member elected
from a ward, the Board of Elections shall hold a special election in
such ward to fill such vacancy on the first Tuesday occurring more
than one hundred and fourteen days after the date on which such
vacancy occurs, unless the Board of Elections determines that such
vacancy could be more practicably filled in a special election held on the
same day as the next general election to be held in the District occurring witliin sixty days of the date on which a special election would
otherwise have been held under the provisions of this subsection. The
person elected as a member to fill a vacancy on the Council shall take
office on the day on which the Board of Elections certifies his election,

786

Mayoral
vacancy

PUBLIC LAW 93-198-DEC. 24, 1973

[87 STAT.

and shall serve as a member of the Council only for the remainder of
the term during which such vacancy occurred.
(2) In the evcnt of a vacancy in the office of Mayor, and if the Chairman becomes a candidate for the office of Mayor to fill such vacancy,
the office of Chairman shall be deemed vacant as of the date of the filing
of his candidacy. In the event of a vacancy in the Council of a member
elected at large, other than a vacancy in the office of Chairman, who
is affiliated with a political party, the central committee of such political party shall appoint a person to fill such vacancy, until the Board
of Elections can nold a special election to fill such vacancy, and such
special election shall be held on the first Tuesday occurring more than
one hundred and fourteen days after the date on which such vacancy
occurs unless the Board of Elections determines that such vacancy
could be more practicably filled in a special election held on the same
day as the next general election to be held in the District occurring
within sixty days of the date on which a special election would otherwise be held under the provision of this subsection. The person
appointed to fill such vacancy shall take office on the date of his
appointment and shall serve as a member of the Council until the day
on which the Board certifies the election of the member elected to fill
such vacancy in either a special election or a general election. The
person elected as a member to fill such a vacancy on the Council shall
take office on the day on which the Board of Elections certifies his
election, and shall serve as a member of the Council only for the
remainder of the term during which such vacancy occurred. With
respect to a vacancy on the Council of a member elected at large who
is not affiliated with any political party, the Council shall appoint a
similarly nonaffiliated person to fill such vacancy until such vacancy
can be filled in a special election in the manner prescribed in this paragraph. Such person appointed by the Council shall take office and serve
as a member at the same time and for the same term as a member
appointed by a central committee of a political party.
(3) Notwithstanding any other provision of this section, at no
time shall there be more than three members (including the Chairman) serving at large on the Council who are affiliated with the same
political party.
Q U A L I F I C A T I O N S FOR HOLDING

OFFICE

SEC. 402. No person shall hold the office of member of the Council,
including the office of Chairman, unless he (a) is a qualified elector,
(b) is domiciled in the District and if he is nominated for election from
a particular ward, resides in the ward from which he is nominated,
(c) has resided and been domiciled in the District for one year immediately preceding the day on which the general or special election for
such office is to be held, and (d) holds no public office (other than his
employment in and position as a member of the Council), for which he
is compensated in an amount in excess of his actual expenses in connection therewith, except that nothing in this clause shall prohibit any
such person, while a member of the Council, from serving as a delegate
or alternate delegate to a convention of a political party nominating
candidates for President and Vice President of the United States, or
from holding an appointment in a Eeserve component of an armed
force of the United States other than a member serving on active
duty under a call for more than thirty days. A member of the Council
shall forfeit his office upon failure to maintain the qualifications
required by this section, and, in the case of the Chairman, section
403(c).

87 STAT. ]

PUBLIC LAW 93-198-DEC. 24, 1973

787

COMPENSATION

SEC. 403. (a) Each member of the Council shall receive compensation, payable in periodic installments, at a rate equal to the maximum rate as may be established from time to time for grade 12 of
the General Schedule under section 5332 of title 5 of the United
States Code. On and after the end of the two-year period beginning ^^^^^^ "^^
on the day the members of the Council first elected under this Act
take office, the Council may, by act, increase or decrease such rate of
compensation. Such change in compensation, upon enactment by the
Council in accordance with the provisions of this Act, shall apply
with respect to the term of members of the Council beginning after
the date of enactment of such change.
(b) All members of the Council shall receive additional allowances for actual and necessary expenses incurred in the performance
of their duties of office as may be approved by the Council.
(c) The Chairman shall receive, in addition to the compensation diSniTcompe'^nto which he is entitled as a member of the Council, $10,000 per annum, sation.
payable in equal installments, for each year he serves as Chairman,
but the Chairman shall not engage in any employment (whether as
an employee or as a self-employed individual) or hold any position
(other than his position as Chairman), for which he is compensated
in an amount in excess of his actual expenses in connection therewith.
POWERS o r THE COUNCIL

SEC. 404. (a) Subject to the limitations specified in title V I of this
Act, the legislative power granted to the District by this Act is vested in and shall be exercised by the Council in accordance with this
Act. I n addition, except as otherwise provided in this Act, all functions granted to or imposed upon, or vested in or transferred to the
District of Columbia Council, as established by Reorganization Plan
Numbered 3 of 1967, shall be carried out by the Council in accordance 81 Stat . 948.
5 u s e app. II.
with the provisions of this Act.
D.C. C o d e
(b) The Council shall have authority to create, abolish, or organize -app.
any office, agency, department, or instrumentality of the government
of the District and to define the powers, duties, and responsibilities
of any such office, agency, department, or instrumentality.
P u b l i c notifica'
(c) The Council shall adopt and publish rules of procedures which t ion.
shall include provisions for adequate public notification of intended
actions of the Council.
(d) Every act shall be published and codified upon becoming law
as the Council may direct.
Ten-day legisi(e) An act passed by the Council shall be presented by the Chair- lative
decision.
man of the Council to the Mayor, who shall, within ten calendar days
(excluding Saturdays, Sundays, and holidays) after the act is presented to him, either approve or disapprove such act. If the Mayor
shall approve such act, he shall indicate the same by affixing his signature thereto, and such act shall become law subject to the provisions
of section 602(c). If the Mayor shall disapprove such act, he shall,
within ten calendar days (excluding Saturdays, Sundays, and holidays) after it is presented to him, return such act to the Council setting
forth in writing his reasons for such disapproval. If any act so passed
shall not be returned to the Council by the Mayor within ten calendar
days after it shall have been presented to him, the Mayor shall be
deemed to have approved it, and such act shall become law subject to
the provisions of section 602(c). If, within thirty calendar days after Transmittals
an act has been timely returned by the Mayor to the Council with his to P r e s i d e n t .
disapproval, two-thirds of the members of the Council present and
! •

788

Post, p. 814.
31 u'sc 1
^
°

PUBLIC LAW 93.198-DEC. 24, 1973

[87 STAT.

voting vote to reenact such act, the act so reenacted shall be transmitted by the Chairman to the President of the United States. Subject
to the provisions of section 602(c), such act, except any act of the
Council submitted to the President in accordance with the Budget and
Accounting Act, 1921, shall become law at the end of the thirty day
period beginning on the date of such transmission, unless during such
period the President disapproves such act.
(f) In the case of any budget act adopted by the Council pursuant
to section 446 of this Act and submitted to the Mayor in accordance
with subsection (e) of this section, the Mayor shall have power to
disapprove any items or provisions, or both, of such act and approve
the remainder. In any case in which the Mayor so disapproves of any
item or provision, he shall append to the act when he signs it a statement of the item or provision which he disapproves, and shall, within
such ten-day period, return a copy of the act and statement with his
objections to the Council. If, wdthin thirty calendar days after any
such item or provision so disapproved has been timely returned by the
Mayor to the Council, two-thirds of the members of the Council present
and voting vote to reenact any such item or provision, such item or
provision so reenacted shall be transmitted by the Chairman to the
President of the United States. In any case in which the Mayor fails
to timely return any such item or provision so disapproved to the
Council, the Mayor shall be deemed to have approved such item or
provision not returned, and such item or provision not returned shall
be transmitted by the Chairman to the President of the United States.
Subpart 2—Organization and Procedure of the Council
THE

CHAIRMAN

SEC. 411. (a) The Chairman shall be the presiding officer of the
Council.
(b) When the Office of Mayor is vacant, the Chairman shall act in
his stead. While the Chairman is Acting Mayor he shall not exercise
any of his authority as Chairman or member of the Council.
ACTS, RESOLUTIONS, AND R E Q U I R E M E N T S

Special eiec-

tlon

Quorum.

EOR

QUORUM

SEC. 412. (a) The Council, to discharge the powders and duties
imposed herein, shall pass acts and adopt resolutions, upon a vote of a
majority of the members of the Council present and voting, unless
otherwise provided in this Act or by the Council. The Council shall
use acts for all legislative purposes. Each proposed act shall be read
twice in substantially the same form, wnth at least thirteen days intervening between each reading. Upon final adoption by the Council
each act shall be made immediately available to the public in a manner
which the Council shall determine. If the Council determines, by a
vote of two-thirds of the members, that emergency circumstances
make it necessary that an act be passed after a single reading, or
that it take effect immediately upon enactment, such act shall be
effective for a period of not to exceed ninety days. Resolutions shall
be used to express simple determinations, decisions, or directions of
the Council of a special or temporary character.
(^^ j ^ spccial electioii may be called by resolution of the Council to
present for an advisory referendum vote of the people any proposition
upon which the Council desires to take action.
(^^^ ^ majority of the Council shall constitute a quorum for the lawful convening of any meeting and for the transaction of business of
the Council, except a lesser number may hold hearings.

87 STAT. ]

PUBLIC LAW 93-198-DEC. 24, 1973

789

INVESTIGATIONS BY THE COUNCIL

SEC. 413. (a) The Council, or any committee or person authorized
by it, shall have power to investigate any matter relating to the affairs
of the District, and for that purpose may require the attendance and
testimony of witnesses and the production of books, papers, and other
evidence. For such purpose any member of the Council (if the Council
is conducting the inquiry) or any member of the committee may issue
subpenas and administer oaths upon resolution adopted by the Council
or committee, as appropriate.
(b) I n case of contumacy by, or refusal to obey a subpena issued
to, any person, the Council by resolution may refer the matter to the
Superior Court of the District of Columbia, which may by order
require such person to appear and give or produce testimony or books,
papers, or other evidence, bearing upon the matter under investigation.
Any failure to obey such order may be punished by such Court as a
contempt thereof as in the case of failure to obey a subpena issued, or
to testify, in a case pending before such Court.
PART B — T H E MAYOR
ELECTION, QUALIFICATIONS, VACANCY, AND COMPENSATION

S E C 421. (a) There is established the Office of Mayor of the District ^ °fbi"h°L^tf °''
of Columbia; and the Mayor shall be elected by the registered qualified
electors of the District.
(b) Tlie Mayor established by subsection (a) shall be elected, on
a partisan basis, for a term of four years beginning at noon on
January 2 of the year following his election.
(c) (1) No person shall hold the Office of Mayor unless he (A) is
a qualified elector, (B) has resided and been domiciled in the District
for one year immediately preceding the day on which the general or
special election for Mayor is to be held, and (C) is not engaged in any
employment (whether as an employee or as a self-employed individual) and holds no public office or position (other than his employment in and position as Mayor), for which he is compensated in an
amount in excess of his actual expenses in connection therewith, except
that nothing in this clause shall be construed as prohibiting such
person, while holding the Office of Mayor, from serving as a delegate
or altei'nate delegate to a convention of a political party nominating
candidates for President and Vice President of the United States, or
from holding an appointment in a reserve component of an armed
force of the United States other than a member serving on active duty
under a call for more than thirty days. The Mayor shall forfeit his
office upon failure to maintain the qualifications required by this
paragraph.
(2) To fill a vacancy in the Office of Mayor, the Board of Elections
shall hold a special election in the District on the first Tuesday occurring more than one hundred and fourteen days after the date
on which such vacancy occurs, unless the Board of Elections determines that such vacancy could be more practicably filled in a special
election held on the same day as the next general election to be held
in the District occurring within sixty days of the date on which a
special election would otherwise have been held under the provisions
of this paragraph. The person elected Mayor to fill a vacancy in the
Office of Mayor shall take office on the day on which the Board of
Elections certifies his election, and shall serve as Mayor only for the
remainder of the term during which such vacancy occurred. When the
Office of Mayor becomes vacant the Chairman shall become Acting
Mayor and shall serve from the date such vacancy occurs until the

790

ga'stat* 8*63^°'

PUBLIC LAW 93-198-DEC. 24, 1973

[87 STAT.

date on which the Board of Elections certifies the election of the new
Mayor at which time he shall again become Chairman. While the
Chairman is Acting Mayor, the Chairman shall receive the comjpensation regularly paid the Mayor, and shall receive no compensation as
Chairman or member of the Council. While the Chairman is Acting
Mayor, the Council shall select one of the elected at-large members or
the Council to serve as Chairman and one to serve as chairman pro
tempore, until the return of the regularly elected Chairman.
(d) The Mayor shall receive compensation, payable in equal installments, at a rate equal to the maximum rate, as may be established from
time to time, for level I I I of the Executive Schedule in section 5314
^^ *^^^® ^ ^^ ^^^ United States Code. Such rate of compensation may be
increased or decreased by act of the Council. Such change in such
compensation, upon enactment by the Council in accordance with the
provisions of this Act, shall apply with respect to the term of Mayor
next beginning after the date of such change. In addition, the Mayor
may receive an allowance, in such amount as the Council may from
time to time establish, for official, reception, and representation
•expenses, which he shall certify in reasonable detail to the Council.
POWERS AND DUTIES

l\f^^^'^^^^'„

5 u s e app. n .
D.C. Code 1

SEC. -422. The executive power of the District shall be vested in the
Mayor who shall be the chief executive officer of the District government. In addition, except as otherwise provided in this Act, all functions granted to or vested in the Commissioner of the District of
Columbia, as established under Reorganization Plan Numbered 3 of
1967, shall be carried out by the Mayor in accordance with this Act.
The Mayor shall be responsible for the proper execution of all laws
relating to the District, and for the proper administration of the
affairs of the District coming under his jurisdiction or control, including but not limited to the following powers, duties, and functions:
(1) The Mayor may designate the officer or officers of the executive
department of the District who may, during periods of disability or
absence from the District of the Mayor execute and perform the
powers and duties of the Mayor.
(2) The Mayor shall administer all laws relating to the appointment, promotion, discipline, separation, and other conditions of
employment of personnel in the office of the Mayor, personnel in executive departments of the District, and members of boards, commissions,
and other agencies, who, under laws in effect on the date immediately
preceding tlie effective date of section 711(a) of this Act, were subject
to appointment and removal by the Commissioner of the District of
Columbia. All actions affecting such personnel and such members
shall, until such time as legislation is enacted by the Council superseding sucli laws and establishing a permanent District government
merit system, pursuant to paragraph (3), continue to be subject to
tlie provisions of Acts of Congress relating to the appointment, promotion, discipline, separation, and other conditions of employment
applicable to officers and employees of the District government, to
section 713(d) of this Act, and where applicable, to the provisions
of tlie joint agreement between the Commissioners and the Civil
Service Commission authorized by Executive Order Numbered 5491
of November 18. 1930. relating to the appointment of District personnel. He sliall appoint or assign persons to positions formerly
occu])ied, ex-officio, by tlie Commissioner of the District of Columbia
or by tlie Assistant to the Commissioner and shall have power to
remove such persons from such positions. Tlie officers and employees
of each agency with respect to Avliich legislative power is delegated

87 STAT. ]

PUBLIC LAW 93-198-DEC. 24, 1973

791

by this Act and wliicli immediately prior to the effective date of section 711(a) of this Act, was not subject to tlie administrative control
of the (""ommissioner of the District, sliall continue to be appointed and
removed in accordance with applicable laws until such tnne as such
law's may be superseded by legislation passed by the Council establishing a permanent District govermnent jnerit system pursuant to
paragraph (8).
(8) The Mayor shall administer the personnel functions of the Dis- Pe"onnei
trict covering employees of all District departments, boards, commissions, offices and agencies, except as otlierwise provided by this Act.
Personnel legislation enacted by Congress prior to or after the effective
date of this section, including, without limitation, legislation relating
to appointments, promotions, discipline, separations, pay, unemployment compensation, health, disability and death benefits, leave, retirement, insurance, and veterans' preference applicable to employees of
the District government as set forth in section 714(c), shall continue
^°^*' ^' ^^^'
to be applicable until such time as the Council shall, pursuant to this
section, provide for coverage under a District goverimient merit system. The District government merit system shall be establi':hed by act
of the Council. The system may pi-ovide for continued i^articipation
in all or part of the F'ederal Civil Service System and shall provide
for persons employed by the District govei'iiment immediately i)receding the effective date of such system personnel benefits, including
but not limited to i)ay, tenure, leave, residence, retirement, health
and life insurance, and employee disability and death benefits, all at
least eq[ual to those i)rovided by legislation enacted by Congress, or
regulation adopted pursuant thereto, and applicable to such officers
and employees immediately prior to the effective date of the system
established i)ursuant to this Act. The District government merit system shall take effect not earlier than one year- nor later than five years
after the effective date of this section.
(4) The Mayor shall, through the heads of administrative boards,
offices, and agencies, supervise and direct the activities of such boards,
offices, and agencies.
(5) The Mayor may submit drafts of acts to the Council.
(6) The Mayor may delegate any of his functions (otliei* than the Delegation of
function of approving or disappi'o\-ing acts passed by the Council or functions,
the function of a])i)roving contracts between the District and the Federal Government under section 781) to any officer, employee, or agency
P°'*> P- 822.
of the executive office of the Mayor, or to any director of an executive
department who may, with the approval of tlie Mayor, make a further
delegation of all or a part of such functions to subordinates under his
jurisdiction.
(7) The Mayor shall appoint a City Administrator, who shall serve ^"y Adminisat the pleasure of the Mayor. The City Administrator shall be the chief ^'entJ' "''^°*"*"
administrative officer of the Mayor, and he shall assist the Mayor in
carrying out his functions under this Act, and shall j)ei'for-m such other
duties as may be assigned to him by the Mayor. The City Administrator
shall be paitl at a rate established by the Mayor, not to exceed level I V
of the Executive Schedule established under section 5315 of title 5 of
the United States Code.
sa^stfrsel^"'
(8) The Mayor may propose to the executive or legislative branch
of the United States Government legislation or other action dealing
with any subject whether or- not falling within the authority of the
District government, as defined in this Act.
(9) The Mayor, as custodian thereof, shall use and authenticate the
corporate seal of the District in accordance with law.
(10) The Mayor shall have the right, under rules to be adopted by
the Council, to be heard by tlie Council or any of its committees.

792

PUBLIC LAW 93-198-DEC. 24, 1973

[87 STAT.

(11) The Mayor is authorized to issue and enforce administrative
orders, not inconsistent with this or any other Act of the Congress or
any act of the Council, as are necessary to carry out his functions and
duties.
(12) The Mayor may reorganize the offices, agencies, and other
entities within the executive branch of the government of the District
by submitting to the Council a detailed plan of such reorganization.
Such a reorganization plan shall be valid only if the Council does not
adopt, within sixty days (excluding Saturdays, Sundays, and holidays) after such i-eorganization plan is submitted to it by the Mayor, a
resolution disapproving such reorganization.
MUNICIPAL

Planning responsibility, 1
tation.

60 Stat. 71f
81 Stat. 275.
D.C. Code
9-1 18, 9-132.

PLANNING

SKC. 423. (a) The jSIayor shall be the central planning agency for
the District. He shall be responsible for the coordination of planning
activities of the municipal government and the preparation and implementation of the District's elements of the comprehensive plan for the
National Capital which may include land use elements, urban renewal
and redevelopment elements, a multi-year program of municipal public works for the District, and physical, social, economic, transportation, and i^opulation elements. The Mayor's planning responsibility
shall not extend to Federal and international projects and developments in the District, as determined by the National Capital Planning
Commission, or to the United States Capitol buildings and grounds
as defined in sections 1 and 16 of the Act of July 31, 1946 (40 U.S.C.
193a, 193m), or to any extension thereof or addition thereto, or to
buildings and gromids under the care of the Architect of the Capitol.
In cai-rying out his responsibilities under this section, the Mayor shall
establish procedures for citizen involvement in the planning process
and for appropriate meaningful consultation with any State or local
government or plainiing agency in the National Capital region affected
by any aspect of a proposed District element of the comprehensive plan
(including amendments thereto) affecting or relating to the District.
(b) The JSIayor shall submit the District's elements and amendments thereto, to the Council for revision or modification, and adoption by act, following public hearings. Following adoption and prior
to implementation, the Council shall submit such elements and amendments thereto, to the National Capital Planning Commission for
review and comment with regard to the impact of such elements or
amendments on the interests and functions of the Federal Establishment, as determined by the Commission.
(c) Such elements and amendments thereto shall be subject to and
limited by determinations with respect to the interests and functions
of the Federal Establishment as determined in the manner provided
by Act of Congress.
PART C — T H E JUDICIARY
J U n i C I A L POWERS

District of
Columbia Court
of A p p e a l s ; Superior Court of
the District of
Columbia, j u r i s diction.

SKC. 431. (a) The judicial power of the District is vested in the
District of Columbia Court of Appeals and the Superior Court of the
District of Columbia. The Superior Court has jurisdiction of any civil
action or other matter (at law or in equity) brought in the District and
of any criminal case under any law applicable exclusively to the District. Tlie Superior Court has no jurisdiction over any civil or criminal
matter over which a United States court has exclusive jurisdiction
pursuant to an Act of Congress. The Court of Appeals has jurisdiction

87 STAT. ]

PUBLIC LAW 93-198-DEC. 24, 1973

793

of appeals from the Superior Court and, to the extent provided by law,
to review orders and decisions of the Mayor, the Council, or any
agency of the District. The District of Columbia courts shall also
have jurisdiction over any other matters granted to the District of
Columbia courts by other provisions of law.
(b) The chief judge of a District of Columbia court shall be desig- de'i^'nlti!?''*'
imted by the District of Columbia Judicial Nominating Commission ** *'"^'"""
established by section 434 from among the judges of the court in regular active service, and shall serve as chief judge for a term of four
years or until his successor is designated, except that his term as chief
judge shall not extend beyond the chief judge's term as a judge of a
District of Columbia court. H e shall be eligible for redesignation as
chief judge.
(c) A judge of a District of Columbia court appointed on or after
the date of enactment of the District of Columbia Court Reorganization Act of 1970 shall be appointed for a term of fifteen years subject D'^C ' c*ode' lote
to mandatory retirement at age seventy or removal, suspension, or preJ. li-ioi.
involuntary retirement jDursuant to section 432 and upon completion
of such term, such judge shall continue to serve until reappointed or
his successor is aj^pointed and qualifies, A judge may be reappointed
as provided in subsection (c) of section 433.
(d) (1) There is established a District of Columbia Commission on cJiimbia*comJudicial Disabilities and Tenure (hereinafter referred to as the "Ten- mission on jirdiure Commission"). The Tenure Commission shall consist of seven ciai Disabuities
members selected in accordance with the provisions of subsection (e). ^^EsTaTiish'ment.
Such members shall serve for terms of six years, except that the member selected in accordance with subsection ( e ) ( 3 ) ( A ) shall serve for
five years; of the members first selected in accordance with subsection
(e) (3) ( B ) , one member shall serve for three years and one member
shall serve for six years; of the members first selected in accordance
M'ith subsection ( e ) ( 3 ) ( C ) , one member shall serve for a term of three
years and one member shall serve for five years; the member first
selected in accordance with subsection ( e ) ( 3 ) ( D ) shall serve for six
years; and the member first appointed in accordance with subsection
( e ) ( 3 ) ( E ) shall serve for six years. I n making the respective first
aijpointments according to subsections (e) (3) (B) and (e) (3) ( C ) , the
Mayor and the Board of Governors of the unified District of Columbia
Bar shall designate, at the time of such appointments, which member
shall serve for the shorter term and which member shall serve for the
longer term.
(2) The Tenure Commission shall act only at meetings called by the
Chairman or a majority of the Tenure Commission held after notice
has been given of such meeting to all Tenure Commission members.
(3) The Tenure Commission shall choose annually, from among its
members, a Chairman and such other officers as it may deem necessary.
The Tenure Commission may adopt such rules of procedures not
inconsistent with this Act as may be necessary to govern the business of
the Tenure Commission.
(4) The District government shall furnish to the Tenure Commis- iJomatiTn!^^
sion, upon the request of the Tenure Commission, such records, infor- availability'.
mation, services, and such other assistance and facilities as may be
iiecessary to enable the Tenure Commission properly to perform its
functions. Information so furnished shall be treated by the Tenure
Commission as privileged and confidential.
(e)(1) No person may be appointed to the Tenure Commission
unless he—
(A) is a citizen of the United States;
(B) is a bona fide resident of the District and has maintained
an actual place of abode in the District for at least ninety days
immediately prior to his appointment; and

794

80 Stat. 378,
948S 84 Stat. 775.

Vacancies.

Compensation.

5 u s e 5332
note.

PUBLIC LAW 93-198-DEC. 24, 1973

[87 STAT.

(C) is not an officer or employee of the legislative branch or of
an executive or military department or agency of the United States
(listed in sections 101 and 202 of title 5 of the United States
Code); and (except with respect to the person appointed or designated, according to subsection (b) (4) (D)) is not an officer or
employee of the judicial branch of the United States, or an officer
or employee of the District government (including its judicial
branch).
(2) Any vacancy on the Tenure Commission shall be filled in the
same manner is which the original appointment was made. Any person so appointed to fill a vacancy occurring other than upon the
expiration of a prior term shall serve only for the remainder of the
unexpired term of his predecesor.
(3) In addition to all other qualifications listed in this section, lawyer members of the Tenure Commission shall have the qualifications
prescribed for persons appointed as judges of the District of Columbia
courts. Members of the Tenure Commission shall be appointed as
follows:
(A) One member shall be appointed by the President of the
United States.
(B) Two members shall be appointed by the Board of Governors of the unified District of Columbia Bar, both or whom shall
have been engaged in the practice of law in the District for at
least five successive years preceding their appointment.
(C) Two members shall be appointed by the Mayor, one of
whom shall not be a lawyer.
(D) One member shall be appointed by the Council, and shall
not be a lawyer.
(E) One member shall be appointed by the chief judge of the
United States District Court for the District of Columbia, and
such member shall be an active or retired Federal judge serving
in the District.
No person may serve at the same time on both the District of Columbia
Judicial Nomination Commission and on the District of Columbia
Commission on Judicial Disabilities and Tenure.
(f) Any member of the Tenure Commission who is an active or
retired Federal judge shall serve without additional compensation.
Other members shall receive the daily equivalent at the rate provided
by grade 18 of the General Schedule, established under section 5332
of title 5 of the United States Code, while actually engaged in service
for the Commission.
(g) The Tenure Commission shall have the power to suspend, retire,
or remove a judge of a District of Columbia court as provided in section 432.
REMOVAL, SUSPENSION, A N D INVOLUNTARY RETIREMENT

SEC. 432. (a) (1) A judge of a District of Columbia court shall be
removed from office upon the filing in the District of Columbia Court
of Appeals by the Tenure Commission of an order of removal certifying the entry, in any court within the United States, of a final judgment of conviction oi a crime which is punishable as a felony under
Federal law or which would be a felony in the District.
(2) A judge of a District of Columbia court shall also be removed
from office upon affirmance of an appeal from an order of removal
filed in the District of Columbia Court of Appeals by the Tenure
Commission (or upon expiration of the time within which such an
appeal may be taken) after a determination by the Tenure Commission of—
(A) willful misconduct in office,

87 STAT. ]

PUBLIC LAW 93-198-DEC. 24, 1973

795

(B) willful and persistent failure to perform judicial duties,
or
(C) any other conduct which is prejudicial to the administration of justice or which brings the judicial office into disrepute.
(b) A judge of a District of Columbia court shall be involuntarily
retired from office when (1) the Tenure Commission determines that
the judge suffers from a mental or physical disability (including habitual intemperance) which is or is likely to become permanent and which
prevents, or seriously interferes with, the proper performance of his
judicial duties, and (2) the Tenure Commission files in the District
of Columbia Court of Appeals an order of involuntary retirement and
the order is affirmed on appeal or the time within which an appeal
may be taken from the order has expired.
(c) (1) A judge of a District of Columbia court shall be suspended,
without salary—
(A) upon—
(i) proof of his conviction of a cr-ime referred to in subsection ( a ) ( 1 ) which has not become final, or
(ii) the filing of an order of removal under subsection
( a ) ( 2 ) which lias not become final; and
(B) upon the filing by the Tenure Commission of an order of
suspension in the District of Columbia Court of Appeals.
Suspension under this paragraph shall continue until termination of
all appeals. If the conviction is reversed or the order of removal is
set aside, the judge shall be reinstated and shall recover his salary and
all rights and privileges of his office.
(2) A judge of a District of Columbia court shall be suspended from
all judicial duties, with such retirement salary as he may be entitled,
upon the filing by the Tenure Commission of an order of involuntary
retirement under subsection (b) in the District of Columbia Court of
Appeals. Suspension sliall continue until termination of all appeals.
If the order of involuntary retirement is set aside, the judge shall be
reinstated and shall recover his judicial salary less any retirement
salary received and shall be entitled to all the rights and privileges
of his office.
(3) A judge of a District of Columbia court shall be suspended from
all or part of his judicial duties, with salary, if the Tenure Commission, upon concurrence of five members, (A) orders a hearing for the
removal or retirement of the judge pursuant to this subchapter and
determines that his suspension is in the interest of the administration
of justice, and (B) files an order of suspension in the District of Columbia Court of Appeals. The suspension shall terminate as specified in
the order (which may be modified, as appropriate, by the Tenure
Commission) but in no event later than the termination of all appeals.
X O M I X A T I O X AXD A P P O I N T M E N T OF J U D G E S

SEC. 483. (a) Except as provided in section 434(d)(1), the President shall nominate, from the list of persons recommended to him by
the District of Columbia Judicial Nomination Commission established
under section 434, and, by and with the advice and consent of the
Senate, appoint all judges of the District of Columbia courts.
(b) No person may be nominated or appointed a judge of a District
of Columbia court unless he—
(1) is a citizen of the United States;
(2) is an active member of the unified District of Columbia
Bar and has been engaged in the active practice of laAv in the
District for the five years immediately preceding his nomination
or for such five years has been on the faculty of a law school in

Qualifications.

796

PUBLIC LAW 93.198-DEC. 24, 1973

[a7 STAT.

the District, or has been employed as a lawyer by the r[nited
States or the District of Columbia government;
(3) is a bona fide resident of the District of Columbia and has
maintained an actual place of abode in the District for at least
ninety days immediately prior to his nomination, and shall retain
such residency as long as he serves as such judge, except judges
appointed prior to the effective date of this part who retain
residency as required by section 1501(a) of title 11 of the District
84 Stat. 491.
of Columbia Code shall not be required to be residents of the
District to be eligible for reappointment or to serve any term to
which reappointed;
(4) is recommended to the President, for such nomination and
appointment, by the District of Columbia Judicial Nomination
Commission; and
(5) has not served, within a period of two years prior to his
nomination, as a member of the Tenure Commission or of the
District of Columbia Judicial Nomination Commission.
Declaration of
(c) Not less than three months prior to the expiration of his term of
r^'ointmen?' '^" office, any judge of the District of Columbia courts may file with the
appo n men .
Xeuurc Commissiou a declaration of candidacy for reappointment. If
a declaration is not so filed by any judge, a vacancy shall result from
the expiration of his term of office and shall be filled by appointment as
Written perform- provided ill subsections (a) and (b). If a declaration is so filed, the
submuuno^pTe's- Teuure Commission shall, not less than thirty days prior to the
ident.
expiration of the declaring candidate's term of office, prepare and submit to the President a written evaluation of the declaring candidate's
performance during his present term of office and his fitness for reappointment to another term. If the Tenure Commission determines the
declaring candidate to be exceptionally well qualified or well qualified
for reappointment to another term, then the term of such declaring
candidate shall be automatically extended for another full term, subject to mandatory retirement, suspension, or removal. If the Tenure
Commission determines the declaring candidate to be qualified for
reappointment to another tei'm, then the Pi-esident may nominate such
candidate, in which case the President shall submit to the Senate
for advice and consent the renomination of the declaring candidate
as judge. If the President determines not to so nominate such declaring candidate, he shall nominate another candidate for such position
only in accordance with the provisions of subsections (a) and (b).
If the Tenure Commission determines the declaring candidate to be
nn<T[ualified for reappointment to another term, then the President
shall not submit to the Senate for advice and consent the renomination
of the declaring candidate as judge and such judge shall not be eligible
for reappointment or appohitment as a judge of a District of Columbia court.
DISTIUCT OF C O L U M l i l A J U D I C I A L N O M I N A T I O N

me^m'beriSp?^"''

COMMISSION

.J^i-'C;- ^^^- (a) Tlierc is established for the District of Columbia the
District of Cohunbia Judicial Nomination Commission (hereafter in
this section referred to as the "Commission"). The Commission shall
consist of seven members selected in accordance with the provisions
of subsection (b). Such members shall serve for terms of six years,
except that the member selected in accordance with subsection (b)
(4) (A) shall serve for five vears; of the members first selected in
accordance with subsection ( b ) ( 4 ) ( B ) , one member shall serve for
three years and one member shall serve for six years; of the members
first selected in accordance with subsection (b) (4) (C), one member
shall sei-\e for a term of three years and one member shall serve for

87 STAT. ]

PUBLIC LAW 93.198-DEC. 24, 1973

797

five years; the member first selected in accordance with subsection
(b) (4) (D) shall serve for six years; and the member first appointed
in accordance with subsection (b) (4) ( E ) shall serve for six years.
I n making the respective first appointments according to subsections
(b) (4) (B) and (b) (4) ( C ) , the Mayor and the Board of Governors
of the unified District of Columbia Bar shall designate, at the time
of such appointments, which member shall serve for the shorter term
and which member shall serve for the longer term.
(b) (1) No person may be appointed to the Commission unless he— Qualifications.
(A) is a citizen of the United States;
(B) is a bona fide resident of the District and has maintained
an actual place of abode in the District for at least 90 days immediately prior to his appointment; and
(C) is not a member, officer, or employee of the legislative
branch or of an executive or military department or agency of the
United States (listed in sections 101 and 202 of title 5 of the
United States Code); and (except with respect to the person g^|° ^*^*- ^^*' .
appointed or designated according to subsection ( b ) ( 4 ) ( I ) ) ) is
'
not an officer or employee of the judicial branch of the United
States, or an officer or employee of the District government
(including its judicial branch).
(2) Any vacancy on the Commission shall be filled in the same
manner in which the original appointment was made. Any person so
appointed to fill a vacancy occurring other than upon the expiration
of a prior term shall serve only for the remainder of the unexpired
term of his predecessor.
(3) I t shall be the function of the Commission to submit nominees
for appointment to positions as judges of the District of Columbia
courts in accordance with section 433 of this Act.
(4) In addition to all other qualifications listed in this section, lawyer members of the Commission shall have the qualifications prescribed for persons appointed as judges for the District of Columbia
courts. Members of the Commission shall be appointed as follows:
(A) One member shall be appointed by the President of the
United States.
(B) Two members shall be appointed by the Board of Governors of the unified District of Columbia Bar, both of whom
shall have been engaged in the practice of law in the District for
at least five successive years preceding their appointment.
(C) Two members shall be appointed by the Mayor, one of
whom shall not be a lawyer.
(D) One member shall be appointed by the Council, and shall
not be a lawyer.
( E ) One member shall be appointed by the chief judge of the
United States District Court for the District of Columbia, and
such member shall be an active or retired Federal judge serving
in the District.
(5) Any member of the Commission who is an active or retired compensation.
Federal judge shall serve without additional compensation. Other
members shall receive the daily equivalent at the rate provided by
^rade 18 of the General Schedule, established under section 5382 of
title 5 of the United States Code, while actuallv engaged in service ! ^^^ ^^^^
«

,1

/^

.

.

v'

o

o

for tne Commission.
( c ) ( 1 ) The Commission shall act only at meetings called by the
Chairman or a majority of the Commission held after notice has been
given of such meeting to all Commission members.
(2) The Commission shall choose annually, from among its members, a Chairman, and such other officers as it may deem necessary.
The Commission may adopt such rules of procedures not inconsistent

note.

798

Confidential
L" a'liabiiitjr'.

PUBLIC LAW 93-198-DEC. 24, 1973

[87 STAT.

with this Act as may be necessary to govern the business of the
Commission.
(3) ^ h e Distiict govemment shall furnish to the Commission, upon
the request of the Commission, such records, information, services, and
such other assistance and facilities as may be necessary to enable the
Commission properly to perform its function. Information so furnished shall be treated by the Commission as privileged and
confidential.
(d) (1) I n the event of a vacancy in any position of the judge of a
District of Columbia court, the Commission shall, within thirty days
following the occurrence of such vacancy, submit to the President, for
possible nomination and appointment, a list of three persons for each
vacancy. If more than one vacancy exists at one given time, the Commission must submit lists in which no person is named more than once
and the President may select more than one nominee from one list.
Whenever a vacancy will occur by reason of the expiration of such a
judge's term of office, the Commission's list of nominees shall be submitted to the President not less than thirty days prior to the occurrence of such vacancy. I n the event the President fails to nominate,
for Senate confirmation, one of the persons on the list submitted to
him under this section within sixty days after receiving such list, the
Commission shall nominate, and with the advice and consent of the
Senate, appoint one of those persons to fill the vacancy for which such
list was originally submitted to the President.
(2) I n the event any person recommended by the Commission to
the President requests that his recommendation be withdrawn, dies,
or in any other way becomes disqualified to serve as a judge of the
District of Columbia courts, the Commission shall promptly recommend to the President one person to replace the person originally
recommended.
(3) In no instance shall the Commission recommend any person, who
in the event of timely nomination following a recommendation by the
Commission, does not meet, ui)on such nomination, the qualifications
si)ecified in section 433.
P A U T I)—DiSTKICT BuiXJKT AXD FINANCIAL ^MANAGEMENT

Subpart 1—Budget and Financial Management
FISCAL YEAR

SEC. 4-11. The fiscal year of the District shall begin on the first day
of July and shall end on the thirtieth day of June of the succeeding
calendar year. Such fiscal year shall also constitute the budget and
accounting year.
SLBMISSION o r ANNUAL BUDGET

SEC. 442. (a) At such time as the Council may direct, the Mayor
shall piepare and submit to the Council each year, and make available
to the public, an annual budget for the District of Columbia government which shall include—
(1) the budget for the forthcoming fiscal year in such detail
as the Mayor determines necessary to reflect the actual financial
condition of the District government for such fiscal year, and
specify the agencies and purposes for which funds are being
requested; and which shall be prepared on the assumption that
proposed expenditures resulting from financial transactions undertaken on either an obligation or cash-outlay basis, for such fiscal

87

STAT. ]

PUBLIC LAW 93-198-DEC. 24, 1973

799

year shall not exceed estimated resources from existing sources
and proposed resources;
(2) an annual budget message which shall include supporting
financial and statistical information on the budget for the forthcoming fiscal year and information on the approved budgets and
expenditures for the immediately preceding three fiscal years;
(3) a multiyear plan for all agencies of the District government as required under section 443;
(4) a multiyear capital improvements plan for all agencies of
the District govenment as required under section 444 ;
(5) a program performance report comparing actual performance of as many programs as is practicable for the last completed
fiscal year a^^ainst proposed goals for such programs for such year,
and, in addition, presentinj^ as many qualitative or quantitative
measures of program effectiveness as possible (including results
of statistical sampling or other special analyses), and indicating
the status of efforts to comply with the reports of the District of
Columbia Auditor and the Comptroller General of the United
States;
(6) an issue analysis statement consisting of a reasonable number of issues, identified by the Council in its action on the budget
in the preceding fiscal year, having significant revenue or budgetary implications, and other similar issues selected bjr the Mayor,
which shall consider the cost and benefits of alternatives and the
rationale behind action recommended or adopted; and
(7) a summary of the budget for the forthcoming fiscal year
designed for distribution to the general public.
(b) The budget prepared and submitted by the Mayor shall include,
but not be limited to, recommended expenditures at a reasonable level
for the forthcoming fiscal year for the Council, the District of Columbia Auditor, the District or Columbia Board of Elections, the District
of Columbia Judicial Nomination Commission, the Zoning Commission of the District of Columbia, the Public Service Commission, the
Armory Board, and the Commission on Judicial Disabilities and
Tenure.
(c) The Mayor from time to time may prepare and submit to the supplemental
Council such proposed supplemental or deficiency budget recom- mendat "nsTsubmendations as in his judgment are necessary on account of laws enacted mittai to council,
after transmission o^ the budget or are otherwise in the public interest.
The Mayor shall submit with such proposals a statement of justifications, including reasons for their omission from the annual budget.
Whenever such proposed supplemental or deficiency budget recommendations are in an amount which would result in expenditures in
excess of estimated resources, the Mayor shall make such recommendations as are necessary to increase resources to meet such increased
expenditures.
MULTIYEAR PLAN

SEO. 443. The Mayor shall prepare and include in the annual
budget a multiyear plan for all agencies included in the District
budget, for all sources of funding, and for such program categories as
the Mayor identifies. Such plan shall be based on the actual experience
of the immediately preceding three fiscal years, on the approved current fiscal year budget, and on estimates for at least the four succeedingfiscalyears. The plan shall include, but not be limited to, provisions
identifying—
(1) future cost implications of maintaining programs at currently authorized levels, including anticipated changes in wage,
salary, and benefit levels;

800

PUBLIC LAW 93-198-DEC. 24, 1973

[87 STAT.

(2) future cost implications of all capital projects for which
funds have already been authorized, including identification of
the amount of already appropriated but unexpended capital project funds;
(3) future cost implications of new, improved, or expanded
programs and capital project commitments proposed for each of
the succeeding four fiscal years;
(4) the effects of current and proposed capital projects on
future operating budget requirements;
(5) revenues and funds likely to be available from existing
revenue sources at current rates or levels;
(6) the specific revenue and tax measures recommended for
the forthcoming fiscal year and for the next following fiscal year
necessary to balance revenues and expenditures;
(7) the actuarial status and anticipated costs and revenues of
retirement systems covering District employees; and
(8) total debt service payments in each fiscal year in which debt
service payments must be made for all bonds which have been or
will be issued, and all loans from the United States Treasury which
have been or will be received, to finance the total cost on a full
funding basis of all projects listed in the capital improvements
plan prepared under section 444; and for each such fiscal year, the
percentage relationship of the total debt service payments (with
payments for issued and proposed bonds and loans from the
United States Treasury, received or proposed, separately identified) to the bonding limitation for the current and forthcomingfiscal year as specified in section 603 ( b ) .
M U L T I Y E A R CAPITAL I M P R O V E M E N T S

PLAN

SEC. 444. The Mayor shall prepare and include in the annual
budget a multiyear capital improvements plan for all agencies of the
District which shall be based upon the approved current fiscal year
budget and shall include—
(1) the status, estimated period of usefulness, and total cost
of each capital project on a full funding basis for which any
appropriation is requested or any expenditure will be made in
the forthcoming fiscal year and at least four fiscal years thereafter, including an explanation of change in total cost in excess
of 5 per centum for any capital project included in the plan of
the previous fiscal year;
(2) an analysis of the plan, including its relationship to other
programs, proposals, or elements developed by the Mayor as the
central planning agency for the District pursuant to section 423
of this Act;
(3) identification of the years and amounts in which bonds
would have to be issued, loans made, and costs actually incurred
on each capital project identified; and
(4) appropriate maps or other graphics.
DISTRICT o r

COLUMBIA C O U R T s ' BUDGET

SEC. 445. The District of Columbia courts shall prepare and annually
submit to the Mayor, for inclusion in the annual budget, annual
estimates of the expenditures and appropriations necessary for the
maintenance and operation of the District of Columbia court system.
All such estimates shall be forwarded by the Mayor to the Council, for
its action pursuant to sections 446 and 603(c), without revision but
subject to his recommendations. Notwithstanding any other provision

87 STAT. ]

PUBLIC LAW 93-198-DEC. 24, 1973

of this Act, the Council may comment or make recommendations concerning such annual estimates involving the expenditures and appropriations necessary for the maintenance and operation of the District
of Columbia court system submitted by such courts but shall have no
authority under this Act to revise such estimates. The courts shall submit as j)art of their budgets both a multiyear plan and a multiyear
capital improvements plan and shall submit a statement presenting
qualitative and quantitative descriptions of court activities and the
status of efforts to comply with reports of the District of Columbia
Auditor and the Comptroller General of the United States.
ENACTMENT OF xVPPROPRIATIONS BY CONGRESS

SEC. M 6 . The Council, within fifty calendar days after receipt of
the budget proposal from the Mayor, and after public hearing, shall
by act adopt the annual budget for the District of Columbia government. Any supplements thereto shall also be adopted by act by the
Council after public hearing. Such budget so adopted shall be submitted by the Mayor to the President for transmission by him to the
Congress. No amount may be obligated or expended by any officer
or employee of the District of Columbia government unless such
amount has been approved by Act of Congress, and then only according to such Act. Notwithstanding any other provision of this Act, the
Mayor shall not transmit any annual budget or amendments or supplements thereto, to the President of the United States until the completion of the budget procedures contained in this Act.
C O N S I S T E N C Y O F BUDGET, ACCOUNTING, AND PERSONNEL SYSTEMS

SEC. 447. The Mayor shall implement appropriate procedures to
insure that budget, accounting, and personnel control systems and
structures are synchronized for budgeting and control purposes on a
continuing basis. No employee shall be hired on a full-time or parttime basis 'unless such position is authorized by Act of Congress.
p]mployees shall be assigned in accordance with the program, organization, and fund categories specified in the Act of Congress authorizing
such position. Hiring of temporary employees and temporary
employee transfers among pT-ograms shall be consistent with applicable Acts of Congress and reprogramming procedures to insure that
costs are accurately associated with programs and sources of funding.
FINANCIAL DUTIES OF THE MAYOR

SEC. 448. Subject to the limitations in section 608, the Mayor shall
have charge of the administration of the financial affairs of the District
!ind to that end he shall—
(1) supervise and be responsible for all financial transactions
to insure adequate control of revenues and resources and to insure
tliat appropriations are not exceeded;
(2) maintain systems of accounting and internal control
designed to provide—
(A) full disclosure of the financial results of the District
government's acti v i ties,
(B) adequate financial information needed by the District government for management purposes,
(C) effective control over and accountability for all funds,
prouerty. and other assets,
(D) reliable accounting results to serve as the basis for
pi-eparing and supportingf agency budget requests and controlling the execution of tlie budget ;

22-150 0 - 7 5 - 5 3

801

,'

802

PUBLIC LAW 93-198-DEC. 24, 1973

[87 STAT.

(3) submit to the Council a financial statement in any detail
and at such times as the Council may specify;
(4) submit to the Council, by November 1 of each fiscal year, a
complete financial statement and report for the preceding fiscal
year;
(5) supervise and be responsible for the assessment of all
property subject to assessment and special assessments within
the corporate limits of the District for taxation, prepare tax
maps, and give such notice of taxes and special assessments, as
may be required by law;
(6) supervise and be responsible for the levying and collection
of all taxes, special assessments, license fees, and other revenues
of the District, as required by law, and receive all moneys receivable by the District from the Federal Government or from any
court, agency, or instrumentality of the District;
(7) have custody of all public funds belonging to or imder the
control of the District, or any agency of the District government,
and deposit all funds coming into his hands, in such depositories
as may be designated and under such terms and conditions as may
be prescribed by act of the Council;
(8) have custody of all investments and invested funds of the
District government, or in possession of such government in a
fiduciary capacity, and have the safekeeping of all bonds and
notes of the District and the receipt and delivery of District bonds
and notes for transfer, registration or exchange; and
(9) apportion the total of all appropriations and funds made
available during the fiscal year for obligation so as to prevent
obligation or expenditure thereof in a manner which would indicate a necessity for deficiency or supplemental appropriations
for such fiscal year, and with respect to all appropriations or
funds not limited to a definite period, and all authorizations to
create obligations by contract in advance of appropriations,
apportion the total of such appropriations or funds or authorizations so as to achieve the most effective and economical use
thereof.
ACCOUNTING

SUPERVISION AND CONTROL

SEC. 449. The Mayor shall—
(a) prescribe the forms of receipts, vouchers, bills and claims
to be used by all the agencies, offices, and instrumentalities of the
District government;
(b) examine and approve all contracts, orders, and other documents by which the District government incurs financial obligations, having previously ascertained that money has been
appropriated and allotted and will be available when the obligations shall become due and payable;
(c) audit and approve before payment all bills, invoices, payrolls, and other evidences of claims, demands, or charges against
the District government and with the advice of the legal officials
of the District determine the regularity, legality, and correctness
of such claims, demands, or charges; and
(d) perform internal audits of accounts and operations and
agency records of the District government, including the examination of any accounts or records of financial transactions, giving
due consideration to the effectiveness of accounting systems, internal control, and related administrative practices of the respective
agencies.

87 STAT. ]

PUBLIC LAW 93-198-DEC. 24, 1973

803

GENERAL A N D SPECIAL F U N D S

SEC. 450. The general fund of the District shall be composed of
those District revenues which on the effective date of this title are
paid into the Treasury of the United States and credited either to
the general fund of the District or its miscellaneous receipts, but shall
not include any revenues which are applied by law to any special
fund existing on the date of enactment of this title. The Council may
from time to time establish such additional special funds as may be
necessary for the efficient operation of the government of the District.
All money i-eceived by any agency, officer, or employee of the District
in its or his official capacity shall belong to the District government
and shall be paid promptly to the Mayor for deposit in the appropriate
fund.
CONTRACTS E X T E N D I N G BEYOND O N E YEAR

SEC. 451. No contract involving expenditures out of an appropriation which is available for more than one year shall be made for a
period of more than five years unless, with respect to a particular contract, the Council, by a two-thirds vote of its members present and
voting, authorizes the extension of such period for such contract. Such
contracts shall be made pursuant to criteria established by act of the
Council.
A N N U A L BUDGET FOR T H E BOARD OF EDUCATION

SEC. 452. With respect to the annual budget for the Board of Education in the District of Columbia, the Mayor and the Council may
establish the maximum amount of funds which will be allocated to
the Board, but may not specify the purposes for which such funds may
be expended or the amount of such funds which may be expended for
the various programs under the jurisdiction of the Board of Education.
Subpart 2—Audit
DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA

AUDITOR

SEC. 455. (a) There is established for the District of Columbia the offjce of
Office of District of Columbia Auditor who shall be appointed by the co^iumbia AudiChairman, subject to the approval of a majority of the Council. The tor.
District of Columbia Auditor shall serve for a term of six years and Establishment.
shall be paid at a rate of compensation as may be established from
time to time by the Council.
(b) The District of Columbia Auditor shall each year conduct a
thorough audit of the accounts and operations of the government of
the District in accordance with such principles and procedures and
under such rules and regTilations as he may prescribe. In the determination of the auditing procedures to be followed and the extent of
the examination of vouchers and other documents and records, the
District of Columbia Auditor shall give due regard to generally
accepted principles of auditing including the effectiveness of the
accounting organizations and systems, internal audit and control, and
related administrative ])ractices.
(c) The District of Columbia Auditor shall have access to all books, Records, acaccounts, records, reports, findings and all other papers, things, or ''^^^''^'^^'yproperty belonging to or in use by any department, agency, or other
instrumentality of the District government and necessary to facilitate
the audit.
(d) The District of Columbia Auditor shall submit his audit reports submut*a?fo°con.
to the Congress, the Mayor, and the Council. Such reports shall set gresT, Mayor, and
forth the scoj)e of the audits conducted by him and shall include such Council.

804

PUBLIC LAW 93-198-DEC. 24, 1973

[87 STAT.

comments and information as the District of Columbia Auditor may
deem necessary to keep the (^ongress, the Mayor, and the Council
informed of the operations to which the reports relate, together with
such recommendations with respect thereto as he may deem advisable.
Public informa^p) xiie Couiicil sliall make such report, together with such other
tion
material as it deems pertinent thereto, available for public inspection,
(f) The Mayor sliall state in writing to the Council, within an
appropriate time, what action he has taken to effectuate the recommendations made by the District of Columbia Auditor in his reports.
PAKT E—BORROWING

Subpart 1—Borrowing
DISTRICT'S AUTHORITY TO ISSUE AND REDEEM GENERAL OBLIGATION BONDS
FOR CAPITAL PROJECTS

SEC. 461. (a) Subject to the limitations in section 603 ( b ) , the District
may incur indebtedness by issuing general obligation bonds to
refund indebtedness of the District at any time outstanding and to
provide for the payment of the cost of accpiiring or undertaking its
various capital projects. Such bonds shall bear interest, payable
annually or semi-annually, at such rate and at such maturities
as the Mayor, subject to the provisions of section 462 of this Act, may
from time to time determine to be necessary to make such bonds
marketable.
(b) The District may reserve the right to redeem any or all of its
obligations before maturity in such manner and at such price
as may be fixed by the Mayor prior to the issuance of such obligations.
CONTENTS OF BORROWING LEGISLATION

SEC. 462. The Council may by act authorize the issuance of general
obligation bonds for the purposes specified in section 461. Such an act
shall contain, at least, provisions—
(1) briefly describing each such project;
(2) identifying the Act authorizing each such project;
(3) setting forth the maximum amount of the principal of the
indebtedness which may be incurred for each such project;
(4) setting forth the maximum rate of interest to be paid on
such indebtedness;
(5) setting forth the maximum allowable maturity for the issue
and the maximum debt service payable in any year; and
(6) setting forth, in the event that the Council determines in
its discretion, to submit the question of issuing such bonds to a
vote of the qualified voters of the District, the manner of holding
such election, the manner of voting for or against the incurring of
such indebtedness, and the form of ballot to be used at such
election.
PUBLICATION OF BORROWING LEGISLATION

SEC. 463. The Mayor shall publish any act authorizing the issuance
of general obligation bonds at least once within five days after the
enactment thereof, together with a notice of the enactment thereof in
substantially the following form:
"NOTICE
"The following act (published herewith) authorizing the issuance of general obligation bonds, has become effective. The time

87 STAT. ]

PUBLIC LAW 93-198-DEC. 24, 1973

805

within which a suit, action, or proceeding questioning the validity
of such bonds can be commenced, will expire twenty days from
the date of the first publication of this notice, as provided in the
District of Columbia Self-Government and Governmental Reorganization Act.
"Mayor."
SHORT PERIOD OF

LIMITATION

SEC. 464, At the end of the twenty-day period beginning on the date
of publication of the notice of the enactment of an act authorizing the
issuance of general obligation bonds without the submission of the
proposition for the issuance thereof to the qualified voters, or upon
the expiration of twenty days from the date of publication of the
promulgation of the results of an election upon the proposition of
issuing bonds, as the case may be—
(1) any recitals or statements of fact contained in such act or in
the preambles or the titles thereof or in the results of the election
of any proceedings in connection with the calling, holding, or
conducting of election upon the issuance of such bonds shall be
deemed to be true for the purpose of determining the validity of
the bonds thereby authorized, and the District and all others
interested shall thereafter be estopped from denying same;
(2) such act and all proceedings in connection with the authorization of the issuance of such bonds shall be conclusively presumed
to have been duly and regularly taken, passed, and done by the
District and the Board of Elections in full compliance with the
provisions of this Act and of all laws applicable thereto; and
(3) the validity of such act and said proceedings shall not thereafter be questioned by either a party plaintiff or a party defendant, and no court shall have jurisdiction in any suit, action, or
proceeding questioning the validity of same, except in a suit,
action, or proceeding commenced prior to the expiration of such
twenty-day period.
ACTS FOR I S S U A N C E OF GENERAL OBLIGATION BONDS

SEC. 465. A t the end of the twenty-day period specified in section
464, the Council may by act establish an issue of general obligation
bonds as authorized pursuant to the provisions of sections 461 to 465
inclusive, hereof. An issue of general obligation bonds is hereby defined
to be all or any part of an aggregate principal amount of bonds
authorized pursuant to such sections, but no indebtedness shall be
deemed to have been incurred within the meaning of this Act until
such bonds have been sold, delivered, and paid for, and then only to
the extent of the principal amount of such bonds so sold and delivered.
The bonds of each issue shall be payable in annual installments beginning not more than three years after the date of such bonds and ending
not more than thirty years from such date. The amount of said issues
to be payable in each year shall be so fixed that when the annual interest is added to the principal amount payable in each year, the total
amount payable either serially or to a sinking fund shall be substantially equal. I t shall be an immaterial variance if the difference between
the largest and smallest amounts of principal and interest so payable
during each fiscal year during the term of the general obligation bonds
does not exceed 3 per centum of the total authorized amount of such
series. Such bonds and coupons may be executed by the facsimile signatures of the officer designated by the act authorizing such bonds, to
sign the bonds, within the exception that at least one signature shall

^"'^' p- ^7^"

806

PUBLIC LAW 93-198-DEC. 24, 1973

[87 STAT.

be manual. Such bonds may be issued in coupon form in the denomination of $1,000, or $1,000 and $5,000, registerable as to principal only
or as to both principal and interest, and if registered as to both principal and interest may be issuable in denominations of multiples of
$1,000. Such bonds and the interest thereon may be payable at such
place or places within or without the District as the Council may
determine.
P U B L I C SALE

SEC. 466. All general obligation bonds issued under this part shall be
sold at public sale upon sealed proposals after publication of a notice
of such sale at least once not less than ten days prior to the date fixed
for sale in a daily newspaper carrying municipal bond notices and
devoted primarily to financial news or to the subject of State and
municipal bonds published in the city of New York, New York, and in
one or more newspapers of general circulation published in the District.
Such notice shall state, among other things, that no proposal shall be
considered unless there is deposited with the District as a downpayment a certified check or cashier's check for an amount equal to at least
2 per centum of the par amount of general obligation bonds bid for,
and the Council shall reserve the right to reject any and all bids.
Subpart 2—Sliort-Term Borrowing
BORROWING TO M E E T

APPROPRIATIONS

SEC. 471. In the absence of unappropriated available revenues to
meet appropriations made pursuant to section 446, the Council may
by act authorize the issuance of negotiable notes, in a total amount
not to exceed 2 per centum of the total appropriations for the current fiscal year, each of which may be renewed from time to time,
but all such notes and renewals thereof shall be paid not later than
the close of the fiscal year folloAving that in which such act becomes
effective.
BORROWING I N

ANTICIPATION

OF

REVENUES

SEC. 472. For any fiscal year, in anticipation of the collection or
receipt of revenues of that fiscal year, the Council may by act authorize
the borrowing of money by the execution of negotiable notes of the
District, not to exceed in the aggregate at any time outstanding 20
per centum of the total anticipated revenue, each of which shall be
designated "Revenue Note for the Fiscal Year 19 ". Such notes may
be renewed from time to time, but all such notes, together with the
renewals, shall mature and be paid not later than the end of the fiscal
year for which the original notes have been issued.
NOTES REDEEMABLE

PRIOR TO

MATURITY

SEC. 473. No notes issued pursuant to this part shall be made payable on demand, but any note may be made subject to redemption
prior to maturity on such notice and at such time as may be stated in
the note.
SALES OF NOTES

SEC. 474. All notes issued pursuant to this part may be sold at not
less than par and accrued interest at private sale without previous
advertising.

87 STAT. ]

PUBLIC LAW 93-198-DEC. 24, 1973

807

Subpail 3—Payment of Bonds and Xotes
SPECIAL TAX

SEC. 481. (a) The act of the Council authorizing the issuance of
general obligation bonds pursuant to this title, shall, where necessary,
provide for the levy annually of a special tax or charge without limitation as to rate or amount in amounts which, together with other revenues of the District available and applicable for said purposes, will
be sufficient to pay the principal of and interest on such bonds and the
premium, if any, upon the redemption thereof, as the same respectively
become due and payable, which tax shall be levied and collected at the
same time and in the same manner as other District taxes are levied
and collected, and when collected shall be set aside in a sinking fund
and irrevocably dedicated to the payment of such principal, interest,
and premium.
(b) The full faith and credit of the District shall be and is hereby
pledged for the payment of the principal of and the interest on all
general obligation bonds and notes of the District hereafter issued
pursuant to subparts 1, 2, and 3 of part E of this title whether or not
such pledge be stated in such bonds or notes or in the act authorizing
the issuance thereof.
(c) (1) As soon as practicable following the beginning of each fiscal
year, the Mayor shall review the amounts of District revenues which
have been set aside and deposited in a sinking fund as provided in
subsection ( a ) . Such review shall be carried out with a view to determining whether the amounts so set aside and deposited are sufficient
to pay the principal of and interest on general obligation bonds issued
pursuant to this title, and the premium (if any) upon the redemption
thereof, as the same respectively become due and payable. To the
extent that the Mayor determines that sufficient District revenues have
not been so set aside and deposited, the Federal payment made for
the fiscal year within which such review is conducted shall be first
utilized to make up any deficit in such sinking fund.
(2) The Comptroller General of the United States shall make
annual audits of the amounts set aside and deposited in the sinking
fund.
Subpart 4—Tax Exemption; T^gal Investment; Water Pollution;
Rt'servoirs; Metro Contributions; and Revenue Bonds
TAX E X E M P T I O N

SEC. 485. Bonds and notes issued by the Council pursuant to this
title and tlie interest thereon shall be exempt from all Federal and
District taxation except estate, inheritance, and gift taxes.
LEGAL

INVESTMENT

SEC. 486. Notwithstanding any restriction on the investment of
funds by fiduciaries contained in any other law, all domestic insurance
(companies, domestic insurance associations, executors, administrators,
guardians, trustees, and other fiduciaries within the District may
legally invest any sinking funds, moneys, trust funds, or other funds
belonging to them or under or within their control in any bonds issued
pursuant to this title, it being the purpose of this section to authorize
the iiiAestment in such bonds or notes of all sinking, insurance, retirement, compcMsation, pension, and trust funds, National banking associations are authorized to deal in, underwrite, purchase and sell, for
their own accounts or for the accounts of customers, bonds and notes
issued by the Counc.'il to the same extent as national banking associa-

Review.

808

PUBLIC LAW 93-198-DEC. 24, 1973

[87 STAT.

tions are authorized by paragraph seven of section 5136 of the Revised
Statutes (12 LT.S.C 24), to deal in, underwrite, purchase and sell obligations of the United States, States, or political subdivisions thereof.
AH Federal building and loan associations and Federal savings and
loan associations; and banks, trust companies, building and loan associations, and savings and loan associations, domiciled in the District,
may purchase, sell, underwrite, and deal in, for their own account
or for the account of others, all bonds or notes issued pursuant to this
title. Nothing contained in this section shall be construed as relieving
any person, firm, association, or corporation from any duty of exercising due and reasonable care in selecting securities for purchase or
investment.
WATER

POLLUTION

SEC. 487. (a) The Mayor shall annually estimate the amount of the
District's principal and interest expense which is required to service
District obligations attributable to the Maryland and Virginia pro
rata share of District sanitary sewage w^ater works and other water
pollution projects which provide service to the local jurisdictions in
those States. Such amounts as determined by the Mayor pursuant
to the agreements described in subsection (b) shall be used to
exclude the Maryland and Virginia share of pollution projects cost
from the limitation on the District's capital project obligations as
provided in section 603 (b).
(b) The Mayor shall enter into agreements with the States and
local jurisdictions concerned for annual payments to the District of
rates and charges for waste treatment services in accordance with the
use and benefits made and derived from the operation of the said waste
treatment facilities. Each such agreement shall require that the estimated amount of such rates and charges will be paid in advance, subject to adjustment after each year. Such rates and charges shall be
sufficient to cover the cost of construction, interest on capital, operation and maintenance, and the necessary replacement of equipment
during tlie useful life of the facility.
COST OF RESERVOIRS ON POTOMAC RIVER

Contract au-

thority

gj.^,^ 488. (a) The ]\layor is authorized to contract with the United
States, any State in the Potomac River Basin, any agency or political
subdivision thereof, and any other competent State or local authority,
w^ith respect to the payment by the District to the United States, either
directly or indirectly, of the District's equitable share of any part or
parts of the non-Federal portion of the costs of any reservoirs authorized by the Congress for construction on the Potomac River or any of
its tributaries. Every such contract may contain such provisions as the
Mayor may deem necessary or appropriate.
(b) Unless hereafter otherwise provided by legislation enacted by
the Ooimcil. all payments made by the District and all moneys received
by the District pursuant to any contract made under the authority of
this Act shall be paid from, or be deposited in,, a fund designated by
the Mayor. Charges for water delivered from the District water system
for use outside the District may be adjusted to reflect the portions
of any payments made by the District under contracts authorized
by this Act which are equitably attributable to such use outside the
District.
DIS'IRICT'S

CONTRIBITTIONS TO T H E W A S H I N G T O N
TRANSIT AUTHORITY

METROPOLITAN

AREA

SEC. 489. Notwithstanding any provision of law to the contrary,
beginning with fiscal year 1976 the District share of the cost of the

87 STAT. ]

PUBLIC LAW 93-198-DEC. 24, 1973

xidopted Regional System described in the National Capital Transportation Act of 1969 (83 Stat. 320), may be payable from the proceeds
of the sale of District general obligation bonds issued pursuant to this
title.

809
D . C . Code I.
1441 n o t e .

R E V E N U E BONlDS A N D OTHER OBLIGATIONS

SEC. 490. (a) The Council may by act issue revenue bonds, notes, or
other obligations (including refunding bonds, notes, or other obligations) to borrow money to finance or assist in the financing of undertakings in the areas of housing, health facilities, transit and utility
facilities, recreational facilities, college and university facilities, and
industrial and commercial development. Such bonds, notes, or other
obligations shall be fully negotiable and payable, as to both principal
and interest, solely from and secured solely by a pledge of the revenues
realized from the property, facilities, developments, and improvements whose financing is undertaken by the issuance of such bonds,
notes, or other obligations, including existing facilities to which
such new facilities and improvements are related, which financing
may be effected through loans made directly or indirectly (including
the purchase of mortgages, in those cases described in subsection (b)
of this section, notes, or other securities) to any public, quasi-public,
or private corporation, partnership, association, person, or other legal
entity.
(b) Except in the case of housing, recreation, commercial and industrial development, the property, facilities, developments, and improvements being financed may not be mortgaged as additional security
for bonds, notes, or other obligations, but in no event shall any
property owned by the District of Columbia or the United States be
mortgaged for the purpose of this section.
(c) Any and all such bonds, notes, or other obligations shall not
be general obligations of the District and shall not be a pledge of or
involve the faith and credit or the taxing power of the District, shall
not constitute a debt of the District, and shall not constitute lending
of the public credit for private undertakings as contained in section
602(a)(2).
(d) Any and all such bonds, notes, or other obligations shall be
issued pursuant to an act of the Council without the necessity of
submitting the question of such issuance to the registered qualified
electors of the District for approval or disapproval.
(e) Any such act may contain provisions—
(1) briefly describing the purpose for which such bond, note,
or other obligation is to be issued;
(2) identifying the Act authorizing such purpose;
(3) prescribinfir the form, terms, provisions, manner or method
of issuing and selling (including negotiated as well as competitive
bid sale), and the time of issuance, of such bonds, notes, or other
obligations; and
(4) prescribing any and all other details with respect to any
such bonds, notes, or other obligations and the issuance and sale
thereof.
The act may authorize and empower the Mayor to do any and all
things necessary, proper, or expedient in connection with the issuance
and sale of such notes, bonds, or other obligations authorized to be
issued under the provisions of this section.
PART F—INDEPENDENT AGENCIES
BOARD OF ELECTIONS

SEC. 491. Section 3 of the District of Columbia Elections Act
(D.C. Code, sec. 1-1103) is amended to read as follows:

^^ ^'^*- ^^^-

810

PUBLIC LAW 93-198--DEC. 24, 1973

[87 STAT.

"SEC. 3. (a) There is created a District of Columbia Board of Elections (hereafter in this section referred to as the 'Board'), to be composed of three members, no more than two of whom shall be of the
same political party, appointed by the Mayor, with the advice and
consent of the Council. Members shall be appointed to serve for terms
of three years, except of the members first appointed under this Act.
One member shall be appointed to serve for a one-year term, one
member shall be appointed to serve for a two-year term, and one
member shall be appointed to serve for a three-year term, as designated by the Mayor.
"(b) Any person appointed to fill a vacancy on the Board shall be
appointed only for the unexpired term of the member whose vacancy
he is filling.
"(c) A member may be reappointed, and, if not reappointed, the
member shall serve until his successor has been appointed and qualifies.
" ( d ) The Mayor shall, from time to time, designate the Chairman
of the Board."
ZONING
41 Stat. 500;
48 Stat. 389.

52 Stat. 7 97.

52 Stat. 798.

COMMISSION

SEC. 492. (a) The first section of the Act of March 1, 1920 (D.C.
Code, sec. 5^12) is amended to read as follows: "That (a) to protect
the public health, secure the public safety, and to protect property in
the District of Columbia there is created a Zoning Commission for
the District of Columbia, which shall consist of the Architect of the
Capitol, the Director of the National P a r k Service, and three members
appointed by the Mayor, by and with the advice and consent of the
Council. Each member appointed by the Mayor shall serve for a term
of four years, except of the members first appointed under this section—
"(1) one member shall serve for a term of two years, as determined by the Mayor;
"(2) one member shall serve for a term of three years, as
determined by the Mayor; and
"(3) one member shall serve for a term of four years, as determined by the Mayor.
"(b) Members of the Zoning Commission appointed by the Mayor
shall be entitled to receive compensation as determined by the Mayor,
with the approval of a majority of the Council. The remaining members shall serve without additional compensation.
"(c) Members of the Zoning Commission appointed by the Mayor
may be reappointed. Each member shall serve until his successor has
been appointed and qualifies.
" ( d ) The Chairman of the Zoning Commission shall be selected by
the members.
"(e) The Zoning Commission shall exercise all the powers and perform all the duties with respect to zoning in the District as provided
by law.".
(b) The Act of June 20, 1938 (D.C. Code, sec. 5-^13, et seq.) is
amended as follows:
(1) ^j^g f^j.^^ Sentence of section 2 of such Act (D.C. Code, sec.
5-414) is amended by striking out "Such regulations shall be made
in accordance with a comprehensive plan and" and inserting in lieu
thereof "Zoning maps and regulations, and amendments thereto, shall
not be inconsistent with the comprehensive plan for the National Capital, and zoning regulations shall be".
(£) Sectlou 5 of such Act (D.C. Code, sec. 5-41Y) is amended to
read as follows:
"SEC. 5. (a) No zoning regulation or map, or any amendment
thereto, may be adopted by the Zoning Commission until the Zoning
Commission—"

87 STAT. ]

PUBLIC LAW 93-198-DEC. 24, 1973

''(1) has held a public hearing, after notice, on such proposed
regulation, map, or amendment; and
"(2) after such public hearing, submitted such proposed regulation, map, or amendment to the National Capital Planning
Commission for comment and review.
If the National Capital Planning Commission fails to submit its comments regarding any such regulation, map, or amendment within
thirty days after submission of such regulation, map, or amendment to
it, then the Zoning Commission may proceed to act upon the proposed
regulation, map, or aniendment without further comment from the
National Capital Planning Commission.
" ( b ) The notice required by clause (1) of subsection (a) shall be
published at least thirty days prior to such public hearing and shall
include a statement as to the time and place of the hearing and a summary of all changes in existing zoning regulations which would be
made by adoption of the proposed regulation, map, or amendment.
The Zoning Commission shall give such additional notice as it deems
expedient and practicable. All interested persons shall be given a reasonable opportunity to be heard at such public hearing. If the hearing
is adjourned from time to time, the time and place of reconvening shall
be publicly announced prior to adjournment.
"(c) The Zoning Commission shall deposit with the National Capital
Planning Commission all zoning regulations, maps, or amendments
thereto, adopted by it."

811

Hearing notice.

P U B L I C SERVICE C O M M I S S I O N

SEC. 493. (a) There shall be a Public Service Commission whose
function shall be to insure that every public utility doing business
within the District of Columbia is required to furnish service and
facilities reasonably safe and adequate and in all respects just and
reasonable. The charge made by any such public utility for any facility
or services furnished, or rendered, or to be furnished or rendered, shall
be reasonable, just, and nondiscriminatory. Every unjust or unreasonable or discriminating charge for such facility or service is prohibited and is hereby declared unlawful.
(b) The first sentence of paragraph 97(a) of section 8 of the Act of
March 4, 1913 (making appropriations for the government of the
District of Columbia) (D.C. Code, sec. 43-201), is amended to read as
follows: "The Public Service Commission of the District of Columbia
shall be composed of three Commissioners appointed by the Mayor by
and with the advice and consent of the Council.".

37 Stat. 995;
78 Stat. 634.

ARMORY BOARD

SEC. 494. The first sentence of section 2 of the Act of June 4, 1948
(D.C. Code, sec. 2-1702), is amended to read as follows: "There is
established an Armory Board, to be composed of the commanding
general of the District of Columbia Militia, and two other members
appointed by the Mayor of the District of Columbia by and with the
advice and consent of the Council of the District of Columbia. The
members appointed by the Mayor shall each serve for a term of four
years beginning on the date such member qualifies.".
BOARD o r

EDUCATION

SEC. 495. The control of the public schools in the District of Columbia is vested in a Board of Education to consist of eleven elected members, three of whom are to be elected at large, and one to be elected from
each of the eight school election wards established under the District

62 Stat. 339.

812
69 Stat. 699;
^^D^c.^'Jodl* 11101 note.

PUBLIC LAW 93-198-DEC. 24, 1973

[87 STAT.

^f Columbia Election Act. The election of the members of the Board
of P^ducation shall be conducted on a nonpartisan basis and in accordance with such Act.
TITLE V—FEDERAL PAYMENT
DUTIES OF T H E MAYOR, C O U X C I L , AND FEDERAL OFFICE OF M A N A G E M E N T
AND BUDGET

SEC. 501. (a) I t shall be the duty of the Mayor in preparing an
annual budget for the government of the District to develop meaningful intercity expenditure and revenue comparisons based on data
supplied by the Bureau of the Census, and to identify elements of
cost and benefits to the District which result from the unusual role of
the District as the Nation's Capital. The results of the studies conducted by the Mayor under this subsection shall be made available
to the Council and to the Federal Office of Management and Budget
for their use in reviewing and revising the Mayor's request with
respect to the level of the appropriation for the annual Federal payment to the District. Such Federal payment should operate to encourage eiforts on the part of the government of the District to maintain
and increase its level of revenues and to seek such efficiencies and
economies in the management of its programs as are possible.
(b) The Mayor, in studying and identifying the costs and benefits
to the District brought about by its role as the Nation's Capital, should
to the extent feasible, among other elements, consider—
(1) revenues unobtainable because of the relative lack of taxable Commercial and industrial property;
(2) revenues unobtainable because of the relative lack of taxable business income;
(3) potential revenues that would be realized if exemptions
from District taxes were eliminated;
(4) net costs, if any, after considering other compensation for
tax base deficiencies and direct and indirect taxes paid, of providing services to tax-exempt nonprofit organizations and corporate
offices doing business only with the Federal Government;
(5) recurring and nonrecurring costs of unreimbursed services
to the Federal Government;
(6) other expenditure re(piirements placed on the District by
the Federal Government which are unique to the District;
(7) benefits of Federal grants-in-aid relative to aid given other
States and local governments;
(8) recurring and nonrecurring costs of unreimbursed services
rendered the District by the Federal Government; and
(9) relative tax burden on District residents compared to that
of residents in other jurisdictions in the Washington, District of
(^olumbia, metropolitan area and in other cities of comparable
size.
re^ue^t'^^^ Payment
^(.) ^ h e Mayor shall submit his request, with respect to the amount
of an annual Federal payment, to the Council. The Council shall by
pfe^'id'e'nt^^ *°
act approve, disapprove, or modify the Mayor's request. After the
action of the Council, the Mayor shall, by December 1 of each calendar
year, in accordance with the provisions in the Budget and Account42 Stat. 20.
ii^j,. Act, 1921 (31 U.S.C. 2), submit such request to the President for
submission to the Congress. Each request regarding an annual Federal payment shall be submitted to the President seven months prior
to the beginning of the fiscal year for which such request is made and
shall include a request for an annual Federal payment for the next
following fiscal year.

87 STAT. ]

PUBLIC LAW 93-198-DEC. 24, 1973

813

A U T H O R I Z A T I O N OF A P P R O r R I A T I O X S

SEC. 502. Notwithstanding any other provision of law, there is
authorized to be appropriated as the annual Federal payment to the
District of Columbia for the fiscal year ending June 30, 1975, the
sum of $230,000,000; for the fiscal year ending June 30, 1976, the sum
of $254,000,000; for the fiscal year ending June 30, 1977, the sum of
$280,000,000; for the fiscal year ending June 30, 1978, and for each
fiscal year thereafter, the sum of $300,000,000.
T I T L E V I — E E S E E V A T I O N O F CONGKESSIONAL
AUTHOEITY
RETENTION o r CONSTITUTIONAL AUTHORITY

SEC. 601. Notwithstanding any other provision of this Act, the
Congress of the United States reserves the right, at any time, to exercise its constitutional authority as legislature for the District, by
enacting legislation for the District on any subject, whether within or
without the scope of legislative power granted to the Council by this
Act, including legislation to amend or repeal any law in force in the
District prior to or after enactment of this Act and any act passed by
the Council.
L I M I T A T I O N S ON T H E C O U N C I L

SEC. 602. (a) The Council shall have no authority to pass any act
contrary to the provisions of this Act except as specifically provided
in this Act, or to—
(1) impose any tax on projjerty of the United States or any
of the several States;
(2) lend the public credit for support of any private undertaking ;
(3) enact any act, or enact any act to amend or repeal any Act
of Congress, which concerns the functions or property of the
United States or which is not restricted in its application exclusively in or to the District ;
(4) enact any act, resolution, or rule with respect to any provision of title 11 of the District of Columbia Code (relating to D.C. code norganization and jurisdiction of the District of Columbia courts) ; ^°^*
(5) impose any tax on the whole or any portion of the personal
income, either directly or at the source thereof, of any individual
not a resident of the District (the terms "individual" and "resident" to be understood for the purposes of this paragraph as they
are defined in section 4 of title I of the District of Columbia
Income and Franchise Tax Act of 1947):
ei stat. 332;
(6) enact any act, resolution, or rule which permits the build- ^.c. code'47..
ing of any structure within the District of Columbia in excess of issic.
the height limitations contained in section 5 of the Act of June 1,
1910 (D.C. Code, sec. 5-405), and in eifect on the date of enact- 36 stat. 452;
75 Stat. 5 8 3 .
ment or this Act;
(7) enact any act, resolution, or regulation with respect to the
Commission on Mental Health;
(8) enact any act or regulation relating to the United States
District Court for the District of Columbia or any other court
of the United States in the District other than the District courts,
or relating to the duties or powers of the United States attorney
or the United States Marshal for the District of Columbia; or
(9) enact any act, resolution, or rule with respect to any proD . C . Code 2 3 vision of title 23 of the District of Columbia Code (relating to 101.
criminal procedure), or with respect to any provision of any
law codified in title 22 or 24 of the District of Columbia Code

814

PUBLIC LAW 93-198-DEC. 24, 1973

[87 STAT.

D.C. Code 22101,24-101.

(relating to crimes and treatment of prisoners) during the twenty1^^^^. ^^^jj calendar months immediately following the day on
which the members of the Council first elected pursuant to this
Act take oiRce.
(b) Nothing in this Act shall be construed as vesting in the District
government any greater authority over the National Zoological Park,
the National (juard of the District of Columbia, the Washington
Aqueduct, the National Capital Planning Commission, or, except as
otherwise specifically provided in this Act, over any Federal agency,
than was vested in the C*ommissioner prior to the effective date of
Post, p. 836.
title I V of this Act.
(c) (1) Except acts of the Council which are submitted to the Presi42 Stat. 20.
(jeiit in accordance with the Budget and Accounting Act, 1921, any
^^^
act which the Council determines according to section 412(a), should
Ante,
p . '^78
take effect immediately because of emergency circumstances, and acts
D.C. a c t s ,
proposing amendments to title I V of this Act, the Chairman of the
transmittal to
spea^keVo/ the
Couucil shall trausmit to the Speaker of the House of Representatives,
^°"^^ ^"d Pre si- j^i^(j (i^g President of the Senate a copy of each act passed by the
Council and signed by the Mayor, or vetoed by the Mayor and repassed
by two-thirds of the Council present and voting (and with respect to
which the President has not sustained the Mayor's veto), and every
act passed by the Council and allowed to become effective by the Mayor
without his signature. Except as provided in paragraph (2), no such
act shall take effect until the end of the 30-day period (excluding
Saturdays, Sundays, and holidays, and any day on which either House
is not in session) beginning on the day such act is transmitted bv the
Chairman to the Speaker of the House of Representatives and the President of the Senate and then only if during such 30-day period both
Houses of Congress do not adopt a concurrent resolution disapproving
such act. The provisions of section 604, except subsections ( d ) , (e), and
(f) of such section, shall apply with respect to any concurrent resolution disapproving any act pursuant to this paragraph.
(2) I n the case of any such act transmitted by the Chairman with
respect to any Act codified in titles 22, 23, or 24 of the District of
io'?fo'2^4°-fou^" <^^olumbia Code, such act shall take effect at the end of the 30-day
period beginning on the day such act is transmitted by the Chairman
to the Speaker of the House of Representatives and the President of
the Senate only if during such 30-day period one House of Congress
does not adopt a resolution disapproving such act. The provisions of
section 604, relating to an expedited procedure for consideration of
resolutions, shall apply to a simple resolution disapproving such act
as specified in this paragraph.
BUDGET P R O C E S S ; L I M I T A T I O N S ON BORROWING AND S P E N D I N G

SEC. 603. (a) Nothing in this Act shall be construed as making any
change in existing law, regulation, or basic procedure and practice
relating to the respective roles of the Congress, the President, the Federal Office of Management and Budget, and the Comptroller General
of the United States in the preparation, review, submission, examination, authorization, and appropriation of the total budget of the District of Columbia government.
( b ) ( 1 ) No general obligation bonds (other than bonds to refund
outstanding indebtedness) or Treasury capital project loans shall be
issued during any fiscal year in an amount which would cause the
amount of principal and interest required to be paid both serially
and into a sinking fund in any fiscal year on the aggregate amounts of
all outstanding general obligation bonds and such Treasury loans, to
exceed 14 per centum of the District revenues (less court fees, any

87 STAT. ]

PUBLIC LAW 93-198-DEC. 24, 1973

815

fees or revenues directed to servicing revenue bonds, retirement contributions, revenues from retirement systems, and revenues derived
from such Treasury loans and the sale of general obligation or revenue
bonds) which the Mayor estimates, and the District of Columbia
Auditor certifies, will be credited to the District during the fiscal year
in which the bonds will be issued. Treasury capital project loans
include all borrowings from the United States Treasury, except those
funds advanced to the District by the Secretary of the Treasury under
the provisions of section 2501, title 47 of the District of Columbia
Code, as amended.
ss^stars'ss^'"
(2) Obligations incurred pursuant to the authority contained in the
District of Columbia Stadium Act of 1957 (71 Stat. 619; D.C. Code
title 2, chapter 17, subchapter I I ) , and obligations incurred by the ^^^•^- '^°'^'' ^'
agencies transferred or established by sections 201 and 202, whether ^^Je, p. 773.
incurred before or after such transfer or establishment, shall not be
included in determining the aggregate amount of all outstanding obligations subject to the limitation specified in the preceding subsection,
(3) The 14 per centum limitation specified in paragraph (1) shall
be calculated in the following manner:
(A) Determine the dollar amount equivalent to 14 percent of
the District revenues (less court fees, any fees or revenues directed
to servicing revenue bonds, retirement contributions, revenues
from retirement systems, and revenues derived from such Treasury
loans and the sale of general obligation or revenue bonds) which
the Mayor estimates, and the District of Columbia Auditor certifies, will be credited to the District during the fiscal year for
which the bonds will be issued.
(B) Determine the actual total amount of principal and interest
to be paid in each fiscal year for all outstanding general obligation bonds and such Treasury loans.
(C) Determine the amount of principal and interest to be paid
during each fiscal year over the term of the proposed general
obligation bond or such Treasury loan to be issued.
(D) If in any one fiscal year the sum arrived at by adding
subparagraphs (B) and (C) exceeds the amount determined under
subparagraph ( A ) , then the proposed general obligation bond or
such Treasury loan in subparagraph (C) cannot be issued.
(c) The Council shall not approve any budget which would result in
expenditures being made by the District Government, during any
fiscal year, in excess of all resources which the Mayor estimates will
be available from all funds available to the District for such fiscal
year. The budget shall identify any tax increases which shall be
required in order to balance the budget as submitted. The Council shall
be required to adopt such tax increases to the extent its budget is
approved. For the purposes of this section, the Council shall use a Fedreral payment amount not to exceed the amount authorized by Congress.
In determining w^hether any such budget would result in expenditures so being made in excess of such resources, amounts included in
the budget estimates of the District of Columbia courts in excess of
the recommendations of the Council shall not be applicable.
(d) The Mayor shall not forward to the President for submission
to Congress a budget which is not balanced according to the provision
of subsection 603(c).
(e) Nothing in this Act shall be construed as affecting the applicability to the District government of the provisions of section 3679 of
the Revised Statutes of the United States (31 U.S.C. 665), the so-called
Anti-Deficiency Act.

816

PUBLIC LAW 93-198-DEC. 24, 1973
CONGRESSIOXAL ACTION

"Resolution."

Referral to
congressional

committees'.'""

ON CERTAIN

DISTRICT

[87 STAT.
MATTERS

SEC. 604. (a) This section is enacted by Congress—
(1) as an exercise of tlie rnlemaking power of the Senate and
the House of Representatives, respectively, and as such these provisions are deemed a pai't of the rule of each House, respectively,
but applicable only with respect to the procedure to be followed
in that House in the case of resolutions described by this section;
and they supersede other rules only to the extent that they are
inconsistent therewith; and
(2) with full recognition of the constitutional right of either
House to change the rule (so far as relating to the procedure of
that House) at any time, in the same manner and to the same
extent as in the case of any other rule of that House.
(b) F o r the purpose of this section, "resolution" means only a
concurrent resolution, the matter after the resolving clause of which
is as follows: "That the
—— approves/disapprov-es of the
action of the District of Columbia Council described as follows:
.", the blank spaces therein being appropriately filled,
and either approval or disapproval being appropriately indicated;
but does not include a resolution which specifies more than one action.
(c) A resolution with respect t o Council action shall be referred
to thc Committce on the District of Columbia of the House of Representatives, or the Committee on the District of Columbia of the Senate, by the President of the Senate or the Speaker of the House of
Representatives, as the case may be.
(d) If the committee to which a resolution has been referred has not
reported it at the end of twenty calendar days after its inti'oduction,
it is in order to move to discharge the committee from further consideration of any other resolution with respect to the same Council action
which has been referred to the committee.
(e) A motion to discharge may be made only by an individual
favoring the resolution, is highly privileged (exce})t that it may not
be made after the committee has reported a resolution with i-espect
to the same action), and debate thereon shall be limited to not more
than one hour, to be divided equally between tliose favoring and those
opposing the resolution. An amendment to the motion is not in order,
and it is not in order to move to reconsider the vote by which the
motion is agreed to or disagreed to.
(f) If the motion to discharge is agreed to or disagreed to, the motion
may not be renewed, nor may another motion to discharge the
committee be made with respect to any other resolution with respect
to the same action.
(g) When the committee has re])orted, or has been discharged from
further consideration of, a resolution, it is at any time thereafter in
order (even though a previous motion to the same effect has been disagreed to) to move to proceed to the consideration of the resolution.
The motion is highly privileged and is not debatable. An amendment
to the motion is not in order, and it is not in order to move to reconsider
the vote by which the motion is agreed to or disagreed to.
(h) Debate on the resolution sliall be limited to not more than ten
hours, which shall be divided equally between those favoring and
those opposing the resolution. A motion further to limit debate is not
debatable. An amendment to, or motion to recommit, the resolution
is not in order, and it is not in oi'der to move to reconsider the vote
by which the resolution is agreed to or disagreed to.
(i) Motions to postpone made with respect to the discharge from
committee or the consideration of a resolution, and motions to proceed
to the consideration of other business, shall be decided without debate.

87 STAT. ]

PUBLIC LAW 93-198-DEC. 24, 1973

(]) Appeals from the decisions of the Chair relating to the application of the rules of the Senate or the House of Representatives, as the
case may be, to the procedure relating to a resolution shall be decided
without debate.
T I T L E V I I — R E F E E E N D U M ; S U C C E S S I O N I N GOVERNMENT; TEMPORARY PROVISIONS; MISCELLANEOUS;
A M E N D M E N T S TO D I S T R I C T O F COLUMBIA E L E C T I O N
ACT; RULES OF CONSTRUCTION; AND E F F E C T I V E
DATES
PART A—CHARTER REFERENDUM
REFERENDUM

SEC. 701. On a date to be fixed by the Board of Elections, not more
than five months after the date of enactment of this Act, a referendum
(in this part referred to as the "charter referendum") shall be conducted to determine whether the registered qualified electors of the
District accept the charter set forth as title I V of this Act.
BOARD OF E L E C T I O N S AUTHORITY

SEC. 702. (a) The Board of Elections shall conduct the charter
referendum and certify the results thereof as provided in this part.
(b) Notwithstanding the fact that such section does not otherwise
take efi^ect unless the charter is accepted under this title, the applicable
provisions of part E of title V I I of this Act shall govern the Board of
Elections in the performance of its duties under this Act.
REFERENDUM BALLOT AND NOTICE OF VOTING

SEC. 703. (a) The charter referendum ballot shall contain the following, with a blank space appropriately filled:
"The District of Columbia Self-Government and Governmental
Reorganization Act, enacted
, proposes to establish a
charter for the governance of the District of Columbia, but provides that the charter shall take effect only if it is accepted by a
majority of the registered qualified voters of the District voting
on this issue.
"Indicate in one of the squares provided below whether you are
for or against the charter.
"D For the charter
"D Against the charter.
"In addition, the Act referred to above authorizes the establishment of Advisory Neighborhood Councils if a majority of the
registered qualified voters in the District vote for such Councils.
"Indicate in one of the squares provided below whether you are
for or against the establishment of Advisory Neighborhood
Councils.
" n For Advisory Neighborhood Councils
" n Against Advisory Neighborhood Councils.".
(b) Voting may be by paper ballot or by voting machine. The
Board of Elections may make such changes in the second and fourth
paragraphs of the charter referendum ballot as it determines to be
necessary to permit the use of voting machines if such machines are
used.
(c) Not less than five days before the date of the charter referendum,
the Board of Elections shall mail to each registered qualified elector
(1) a sample of the charter referendum ballot, and (2) information

817

818

Voting information, publication.

PUBLIC LAW 93-198-DEC. 24, 1973

showing tlie polling place of such elector and the date and hours
of voting.
(d) Not less than one day before the charter referendum, the Board
of Elections shall publish, in one or more newspapers of general circulation published in the District, a list of the polling places and the
date and hours of voting.
ACCEPTANCE

Certification.

[87 STAT.

OR X O N A C C E P T A N C E OF

CHARTER

SEC. 704:. (a) If a majority of the registered qualified electors voting
in the charter referendum vote for the charter, the charter shall be
(Considered accepted as of the time the Board of Elections certifies the
result of the charter referendum to the President of the United States,
as provided in subsection ( b ) .
(b) The Board of Elections shall, within a reasonable time, but in
no event more than thirty days after the date of the charter referendum, certify the results of the charter referendum to the President
of the LTnited States and to the Secretary of the Senate and the Clerk
of tlie House of Representatives.
PART B—SUCCESSION I N GOVERNMENT
A U O L I S I I ^ I E N T OF E X I S T I N G G O V E R N M E N T A N D TRANSFER OF F U N C T I O N S

81 Stat, 948,
5 u s e a p p . II,
D , C . Code 1app.

SEC. 711. The District of Columbia Council, the offices of Chairman
of the District of Columbia Council, Vice Chairman of the District of
Columbia Council, and the seven other members of the District of
Columbia Council, and the offices of the Commissioner of the District
of Columbia and Assistant to the Commissioner of the District of
Columbia, as established by Reorganization Plan Numbered 3 of 1967,
are abolished as of noon January 2,1975. This subsection shall not be
construed to reinstate any governmental body or office in the District
abolished in said plan or otherwise heretofore.
CERTAIN DELEGATED F U N C T I O N S A N D F U N C T I O N S OF C E R T A I N

AGENCIES

SEC, 712. No function of the District of Columbia Council (established under Reorganization Plan Numbered 3 of 1967) or of the
Commissioner of the District of Columbia which such District of
Columbia Council or Commissioner has delegated to an officer,
employee, or agency (including any body of or under such agency)
of the District, nov any function now vested pursuant to section 501
of Reorganization Plan Numbered 3 of 1967 in the District Public
Service Commission, Zoning Advisory Council, Board of Zoning
Adjustment, Office of the Recorder of Deeds, or Armory Board, or in
any officer, employee, or body of or under such agency, shall be considered as a function transferred to the Council pursuant to section
404(a) of tliis Act, Each such function is hereby transferred to the officer, employee, or agency (inchiding any body of or under such agency),
to whom or to wliich it was delegated, or in whom or in which it has
remained vested, until the Mayor or Council established under this
Act, or both, pursuant to the powers herein granted, shall revoke,
modify, or transfer such delegation or vesting.
T R A N S F E R OF P E R S O N N E L , PROPERTY, A N D

FUNDS

SEC, 713. (a) I n each case of the transfer, by any provision of this
Act, of functions to the Council, to the Mayor, or to any agency or
officer, there are hereby authorized to be transferred (as of the time
of su(*h transfer of functions) to the Council, to the Mayor, to such

87 STAT. ]

PUBLIC LAW 93-198-DEC. 24, 1973

819

agency, or to the agency of which such officer is the head, for use in
the administration of the functions of tJie Council or such agency or
officer, the personnel (except the Commissioner of the District of
Columbia, the Assistant to the Commissioner-, the Chairman of the
District of Columbia Council, the Vice Chairman of the L^istrict of
Columbia Council, the other members thereof, all of whose offices are
abolished by this Act), property, records, and unexpended balances
of appropriations and other funds which relate primarily to the functions so transferred.
(b) If any question arises in connection w^th the carrying out of
subsection (a), such questions shall be decided—
(1) in the case of functions transferred from a Federal officer
or agency, by the Director of the Office of Management and
Budget; and
(2) in the case of other functions ( A ) by the Council, or in
such manner as the Council shall provide, if such functions are
transferred to the Council, and (B) by the Mayor if such functions are transferr-ed to him or to any other- officer or agency.
(c) Any of the personnel authorized to be transferred to the Council, the Mayor, or any agency by this section which the Council or the
head of such agency shall find to be in excess of the personnel necessary for the administration of its or his function shall, in accordance
with law, be retransferred to other positions in the District or Federal Government or be separated from the service.
(d) Xo officer or employee shall, by reason of his transfer to the
Distr-ict government under this Act or his separation from service
under- this Act, be deprived of any civil service rights, benefits, and
l)r-ivileges held by him prior to such tr-ansfer or any right of appeal or
review^ he may have by reason of his separation from service.
r<:xiSTING STATUTES, Rr^OULATIOXS, AND OTHP^H ACTIONS

SEC. 714. (a) Any statute, r-egulation, or other action in i-espect of
(and any r-egulation or other action issued, made, taken, or- granted
by) any officer or agency fr-om which any function is tr-ansferred by
this Act shall, except to the extent modified or made inapplicable by or
under authority of law, continue in effect as if such transfer liad not
been made; but after such transfer, references irr such statute, regulation, or other action to an officer or agency from which a tr-ansfer is
made by this Act shall be held and considered to refer to the officer or
agency to which the transfer is made.
(h) As used in subsection ( a ) , the term "other action" includes,
without limitation, any nrle, or-cler, contract, compact, policy, determination, directive, grant, authorization, permit, requirement, or
designation.
(c) Unless otherwise specifically provided in this Act, nothing contained in this Act shall be construed as affecting the applicability to
tlie District gov^ernment of personnel legislation r-elating to the District gover-nment until such time as the Council may otherwise elect to
provide etpial or equivalent coverage.
T E X D I X G ACTIONS ANr:) PliOCEEDINGS

SEC. 715. (a) No suit, action, or other judicial proceeding lawfully
commenced by or against any officer- or agency in his or its official
capacity or in relation to the exercise of his or its official functions,
shall abate by reason of the taking effect of any provision of this Act;
but the cour-t, unless it deternrines that the survival of such suit, action,
or other- proceedings is not necessary for purposes of settlement of the

"other action."

820

PUBLIC LAW 93-198-DEC. 24, 1973

[87 STAT.

questions involved, tiliall allow the same to be maintained, with such
substitutions as to parties as are appropriate.
(b) No administrative action or proceeding lawfully commenced
shall abate solely by reason of the taking effect of any provision of this
Act, but such action or proceeding shall be continued with such substitutions as to parties and officers or agencies as are appropriate.
VACANCIES K E S n . T T X G FROM A l i O L I S H M E N T OF OFFICES OF C O M M I S S I O N E R
A N D ASSISTANT TO T H E C O M M I S S I O N E R

SEC. 716. Until the 1st day of July next after the first Mayor takes
office under this Act no vacancy occurring in any District agency by
reason of se(?tion 711, abolishing the offices of Commissioner of the
District of Columbia and Assistant to the Commissioner, shall affect
the power of the remaining members of such agency to exercise its
functions; but such agency may take action only if a majority of the
members holding office vote in favor of it.
STATUS OF T H E

20 Stat. 102.

80 Stat. 525.
5 u s e 7321.

D . C . Code
1-101 n o t e .

DISTRICT

SEC. 717. (a) All of the territory constituting the permanent seat
of the Government of the United States shall continue to be designated
as the District of Columbia. The District of Columbia shall remain
and continue a body corporate, as provided in section 2 of the Revised
Statutes relating to the District (D.C. Code, sec. 1-102). Said Corporation shall continue to be charged with all the duties, obligations,
responsibilities, and liabilities, and to be vested with all of the powers,
rights, i^rivileges, immunities, and assets, respectively, imposed upon
and vested in said Corporation or the Commissioner.
(b) No law or regulation which is in force on the effective date of
title I V of this Act shall be deemed amended or repealed by this Act
except to the extent specifically provided herein or to the extent that
such law or regulation is inconsistent with this Act, but any such law
or regulation may be amended or repealed by act or resolution as
authorized in this Act, or by Act of Congress, except that, notwithstanding the provisions of section 752 of this Act, such authority to
repeal shall not be construed as authorizing the Council to repeal or
otherwise alter, by amendment or otherwise, any provision of subchapter I I I of chapter 73 of title 5, United States Code, in whole or
in part.
(c) Nothing contained in this section shall affect the boundary line
between the District of Columbia and the Commonwealth of Virginia
as the same was established or may be subsequently established under
the provisions of title I of the Act of October 31, 1945 (59 Stat. 552).
C O X T I N U A T K ^ N OF T H E DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA COURT SYSTEM

^'*^*^^''^'*'^*
D . C . Code note

prec. 11-101.

SEC. 718. (a) The District of Columbia Court of Appeals, the
Superior Court of the District of Columbia, and the District of
Columbia Connnission on Judicial Disabilities and Tenure shall continue as provided under the District of Columbia Court Reorganization Act of 1970 subiect to the provisions of part C of title I V of
,i •

i

.

'-,

,•

nAr, /

\

/A\

this Act and section 602(a) (4).
(b) The term and qualifications of any judge of any District of
Columbia court, and the term and qualifications of any member of
the District of Columbia Commission on Judicial Disabilities and
Tenure appointed prior to the effective date of title I V of this Act
shall not be affected by the provisions of part C of title I V of this
Act. No provision of this Act shall be construed to extend the term
of any such judge or member of such Commission. Judges of the

87 STAT. ]

PUBLIC LAW 93-198-DEC. 24, 1973

District of Cohiiiibia courts and members of the District of Columbia
Commission on Judicial Disabilities and Tenure appointed after the
effective date of title I V of this Act shall be appointed according to
part C of such title IV.
(c) Nothing in this Act shall be construed to amend, repeal, or
diminish the duties, rights, privileges, or benefits accruing under sections 1561 through 1571 of title 11 of the District of Columbia Code,
and sections 703 and 904 of such title, dealing with the retirement and
compensation of the judges of the District of Columbia courts.

821

^^ stat. 449.
^"^ ^'^'- '^'^^'

C O N T I N U A T I O N O F T H E BOARD OF EDUCATION

SEC. 719. The term of any member elected to the District of Columbia Board of Education, and the powers and duties of the Board of
Education, shall not be affected by the provisions of section 495. No
provision of such section shall be construed to extend the term of any
such member or to terminate the term of any such member.
PART C—TEMPORARY PROVISIONS
POWERS OF THE PRESIDENT DURING TRANSITIONAL PERIOD

SEC. 721. The President of the United States is hereby authorized
and reciuested to take such action during the period following the date
of the enactment of this Act and ending on the date of the first meeting of the Council, by Executive order or otherwise, with respect to
the administration of the functions of the District government, as
lie deems necessary to enable the Board of Elections properly to perform its functions under this Act,
I t E I M B l RSABLE APPROPRIATIONS FOR T H E DISTRICT

SEC. 722. (a) The Secretary of the Treasury is authorized to
advance to the District of Columbia the sum of $750,000, out of any
money in the Treasury not otherwise appropriated, for use (1) in
paying the expenses of the Board of Elections (including compensation of the members thereof), and (2) in oAerwise carrying into
effect the provisions of this Act.
(b) The full amount expended out of the money advanced pursuant
to this section shall be reimbursed to the United States, without interest, during the second fiscal year which begins after the effective date
of title I V , from the general fund of the District.
I N T E R I M LOAN A U T H O R I T Y

SEC. 728. (a) The Mayor is authorized to accept loans for the District from the Treasury of the United States, and the Secretary is
authorized to lend to the Mayor, such sums as the Mayor may determine are required to complete capital projects for which construction
and construction services funds have been authorized or appropriated,
as the case may be, by Congress prior to the effective date of title I V .
In addition, such loans may include funds to pay the District's share
of the cost of the adopted regional system specified in the National
Capital Transportation Act of 1969.
83 stat. 320.
(b) Loans advanced pursuant to this section during any six-month ^.c. code 1period shall be at a rate of interest determined by the Secretary as ^^^inte^el^rate.
of the beginning of such period, which, in his judgment, would reflect
the cost of money to the Treasury for borrowing at a maturity approximately equal to the period of time the loan is outstanding.

822
Appropriation.

PUBLIC LAW 93-198-DEC. 24, 1973

[87

STAT.

(c) Subject to the limitations contained in section 603(b), there are
authorized to be appropriated such sums as may be necessary to malce
loans under this section.
PART D—MISCELLANEOUS
AGREEMENTS W I T H U N I T E D STATES

F e d e r a l government s e r v i c e s .

Delegation of
functions.

C o s t s , payment.

Metropolitan
police, assistance
to U.S. Secret
Service and Executive Protective
Service.
65 Stat. 122;
84 Stat. 1941.
65 Stat. 712.

SEC. 731. (a) For the purpose of preventing duplication of effort or
for the purpose of otherwise promoting efficiency and economy, any
Federal officer or agency may furnish services to the District government and any District officer or agency may furnish services to the
Federal Government. Except where the terms and conditions governing the furnishing of such services are prescribed by other provisions
of law, such services shall be furnished pursuant to an agreement (1)
negotiated by the Federal and District authorities concerned, and (2)
approved by the Director of the Federal Office of JNIanagement and
Budget and by the Mayor. Each such agreement shall provide that
the cost of furnishing such services shall be borne in the manner provided in subsection (c) by the government to which such services are
furnished at rates or charges based on the actual cost of furnishing
such services.
(b) For the purpose of carrying out any agreement negotiated and
approved pursuant to subsection ( a ) , any District officer or agency
may in the agreement delegate any of his or its functions to any Federal officer or agency, and any Federal officer or agency may in the
agreement delegate any of his or its functions to any District officer
or agency. Any function so delegated may be exercised in accordance
with the terms of the delegation.
(c) The cost to each Federal officer and agency in furnishing sei'vices to the District pursuant to any such agreement are authorized to
be paid, in accordance with the terms of the agreement, out of appi-opriations available to the District officers and agencies to which
such services are furnished. The costs to each District officer- and
agency in furnishing services to the Federal Government pursuant
to any such agreement are authorized to be paid, in accordance with
the terms of the agreement, out of appropriations made by the Congress or other funds available to the Federal officers and agencies to
which such services are furnished, except that the Chief of the Metropolitan Police shall on a nonreimbursable basis when requested by
the Director of the United States Secret Service assist the Secret Service and the Executive Protection Service in the performance of their
respective protective duties under section 3056 of title 18 of the
United States Code and section 302 of title 3 of the LTnited States Code.
PERSONAL I N T E R E S T I N CONTRACTS OR TRANSACTIONS

76 Stat. 1124.

SEC. 732. Any officer or employee of tlie District who is convicted of
a violation of section 208 of title 18, United States Code, shall forfeit
[lis office or position.
C O M P E N S A T I O N FROM :\r()RE TITAN O N E SOURCE

SEC. 733. (a) Except as provided in this Act, no person shall be
ineligible to serve or to receive compensation as a member of the Board
of Elections because he occupies another office or i^osition or because he
receives compensation (including retirement compensation) from
another source.
(b) The right to another office or position or to compensation from
another source otherwise secured to such a person under the laws of the

87 STAT. ]

PUBLIC LAW 93-198-DEC. 24, 1973

823

United States shall not be abridged by the fact of his service or receipt
of compensation as a member of such Board, if such service does not
interfere with the discharge of his duties in such other office or
position.
ASSISTANCE OF T H E U N I T E D STATES CIVIL SERVICE C O M M I S S I O N I N
D E V E L O P M E N T OF DISTRICT M E R I T SYSTEM

SEC. 734. The United States Civil Service Commission is hereby
authorized to advise and assist the Mayor and the Council in the further development of the merit system or systems required by section
422(3) and the said Commission is authorized to enter into agreements with the District government to make available its registers of
eligibles as a recruiting source to fill District positions as needed. The
costs of any specific services furnished by the Civil Service Commission may be compensated for under the provisions of section 731 of
this Act.
REVENUE

SHARING

p. 791.

costs,

RESTRICTIONS

SEC. 735. Section 141(c) of the State and Local Fiscal Assistance
Act of 1972 (86 Stat. 919) is amended to read as follmvs:
"(c) DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA.—For purposes of this title, tlie District
of Columbia shall be ti'eated both—
"(1) as a State (and any reference to the Governor of a State
shall, in the case of the District of Columbia, be treated as a
reference to the Mayor of the District of Columbia), and
"(2) as a county area which has no units of local government
(other than itself) within its geographic area.".
INDEPENDENT

Ante,

3i use uei.

AIDIT

Annual GAG
SEC. 736. (a) In addition to the audit carried out under section 455, audit.
the accounts and operations of the District government shall be
audited annually by the General Accounting Office in accordance with
such j)rinciples and procedures, and in such detail, and under such
rules and I'egulations as may be prescribed by the Comptroller General
of the ITnited States. In the determination of the auditing procedures
to be followed and the extent of the examination of vouchers and
other documents, the Comptroller General shall give due regard to
generally accepted principles of auditing, including consideration of
the effectiveness of the accounting organizations and systems, internal audit and control, and related administrative practices. The rep- j^^f^'^'^^' ^""^^^
resentatives of the Genei-al Accounting Office shall have access to all
books, accounts, records, re])oi"ts, files, and all other papers, things, or
property belonging to or in use by the District and necessary to
facilitate the audit, and such representatives shall be afforded full
facilities for auditing the accounts and operations of the District
govei'iiment.
(b) (1) The Comptroller General shall submit his audit reports to ^®P°f*^ '° ^°";
r e s s , Mayor, and
the Congress, the Mayor, and the Council. The reports shall set forth g
Council.
the scope of the audits and shall include such comments and information as the Comptroller General may deem necessary to keep the Congress, the Mayor, and the Council informed of the operations to which
the reports relate, together with such recommendations with respect
thereto as the Comptrollei- General may deem advisable,
(2) After the Mayor has had an opportunity to be heard, the Council .j^^"^^^'^ inspec
may make such report, together with such other material as it deems tion.
pertinent thereto, available for public inspection.

824
Audit recommend a t i o n s , compliance.

PUBLIC LAW 93-198-DEC. 24, 1973

[87

STAT.

(3) The Mayor, within lunety days after receipt of the audit from
the Comptroller General, shall state in writing to the Council, with
a copy to the Congress, what has been done to comply with the recommendations made by the Comptroller General in the report.
ADJUSTMENTS

Debt payment.

Demonstration
c o s t s , reimbursement.

Surety bond.

Premiums, payment.

SEC. 737. (a) Subject to section 731, the Mayor, with the approval
of the Council, and the Director of the Oifice of Management and
Budget, is authorized and empow^ered to enter into an agreement or
agreements concerning the manner and method by w^hich amounts
owed by the District to the United States, or by the L^nited States to
the District, shall be ascertained and paid.
(b) The United States shall reimburse the District for necessary
expenses incurred by the District in connection with assemblages,
marches, and other demonstrations in the District W'hich relate primarily to the Federal Government. The manner and method of ascertaining and paying the amounts needed to so reimburse the District
shall be determined by agreement entered into in accordance with
subsection (a) of this section.
(c) Each officer and employee of the District required to do so by
the Council shall provide a bond wath such surety and in such amount
as the Council may require. The premiums for all such bonds shall be
paid out of appropriations for the District.
ADVISORY XEIGIIBORIIOOD

Petition requirement.

Elections.
Administration.

Functions.

Notices.

COUNCILS

Shid. 738. (a) The Council shall by act divide the District into
neighborhood council areas and, upon receiving a petition signed by
at least 5 per centum of the I'egistered qualified electors of a neighborhood council area, shall establish for that neighborhood an elected
advisory neighborhood council. I n designating such neighborhoods,
the Council shall consider natural geographic boundaries, election
districts, and divisions of the District made for the purpose of administration of services.
(b) Elections for members of each advisory neighborhood council
shall be nonpartisan, shall be scheduled to coincide with the elections
of members of the Board of Education held in the District, and shall
be administered by the Board of Elections. Advisory neighborhood
council members shall be elected from single member districts within
each neighborhood council area by the registered qualified electors
thereof.
(c) Each advisory neighborhood council—
(1) may advise tlie District government on matters of public
policy including decisions regarding planning, streets, recreation,
social services programs, health, safety, and sanitation in that
neighborhood council area;
(2) may employ staff and expend, for public purposes within its
neighborhood council area, public funds and other funds donated
to it; and
(3) shall have such other powers and duties as may be provided
by act of the Council.
(d) I n the manner provided by act of the Council, in addition to any
other notice required by law, timely notice shall be given to eacli
advisory neighborhood council of requested or proposed zoning
changes, \ari^nces. public unprovements, licenses or permits of significance to ueighborliood planning and development within its neighborhood council area for its review, comment, and recommendation.

87

STAT.]

PUBLIC LAW 93-198-DEC. 24, 1973

(e) I n order to pay the expenses of the advisory neighborhood
councils, enable them to employ such staff as may be necessary, and to
conduct programs for the welfare of the people in a neighborhood
council area, the District government shall apportion to each advisory
neighborhood council, out of the revenue of the District received from
the tax on real property in the District including improvements
thereon, a sum not less than that part of such revenue raised by levying
1 cent per $100 of assessed valuation which bears the same ratio to the
full sum raised thereby as the population of the neighborhood bears to
the population of the District. The Council may authorize additional
methods of financing advisory neighborhood councils.
(f) The Council shall by act make provisions for the handling of
funds and accounts by each advisory neighborhood council and shall
establish guidelines with respect to the employment of persons by each
advisory neighborhood council which shall include fixing the status
of such employees with respect to the District government, but all
such provisions and guidelines shall be uniform for all advisory
neighborhood councils and shall provide that decisions to employ and
discharge employees shall be made by the advisory neighborhood
council. These provisions shall conform to the extent practicable to the
regular budgetary, expenditure and auditing procedures and the
personnel merit system of the District.
(g) The Council shall have authority in accordance with the provisions of this Act, to legislate with respect to the advisory neighborhood councils established in this section.
(h) The foregoing provisions of this section shall take effect only if
agreed to in accordance witli tlie provisions of section 703(a) of this
Act.

825
Council exp e n s e s , funds, apportionment.

Employment
guidelines.

Legislative
thority.

X A T I O X A L CAPITAL SERVICE AREA

SEC. 739. (a) There is establislied within the District of Columbia
tlie National Capital Service Area which shall include, subject to the
following provisions of this section, the principal Federal monuments,
the White House, tlie Capitol Building, the United States Supreme
Court Building, and the Federal executive, legislative, and judicial
office buildings located adjacent to the Mall and the Capitol Building,
and is more particularly described in subsection (f).
(b) There is established in the Executive Office of the President the
National Ca})ital Service Director who shall be appointed by the President. The President, through the National Capital Service Director,
shall assure that there is j)rovided, utilizing District of Columbia govei-nmental services to the extent practicable, within the area specified in
subsection (a) and particularly described in subsection ( f ) , adequate
fire })]"otection and sanitation services. Except with respect to that
))ortion of the National Capital Service Area comprising the United
States Capitol Buildings and Grounds as defined in sections 1 and 16
of the Act of July 31, 1946, as amended (40 U.S.C. 193a and 193m),
the United States Supreme Court Building and Grounds as defined in
section 11 of the Act of August 18, 1949, as amended (40 U.S.C. 13p),
and the Library of Congress Buildings and Grounds as defined in section 11 of the Act of August 4, 1950, as amended (2 U.S.C. 167j), the
National Cai)ital Service Director shall assure that there is provided
within the remainder of such area specified in subsection (a) and subsection (f), adequate police i:)rotection and maintenance of streets and
highwavs.
(c) The National Capital Service Director shall be entitled to
receive compensation at the maximum rate as may be established from
time to time for level I V of the Executive Schedule of section 5314 of
title 5 of the T'^nited States Code. The Director may appoint, subject
to the provisions of title 5 of the United States Code governing
appointments in the competitive service, and fix the pay of, in accord-

Establishment.

60 Stat. 718;
81 Stat. 275.
D . C . Code
9-118, 9-132.
63 Stat. 617.
64 Stat. 412;
84 Stat. 309.

Compensation.

5 u s e 101 (it
seq.

826
80 Stat. 443,
467.
5 u s e 5101,
5331.

25 Stat. 778;
35 Stat. 634.

P r e s i d e n t i a l report to C o n g r e s s .

Boundaries.

PUBLIC LAW 93-198-DEC. 24, 1973

[87

STAT.

ance with the provisions of chapter 51 and subchapter 3 of chapter 53
of such title relating to classification and General Schedule pay rates,
such personnel as may be necessary.
(d) Section 45 of the Act entitled "An Act to provide for the organization of the militia of the District of Columbia", approved March 1,
1889 (D.C. Code, sec. 39-603), is amended by inserting after
"United States Marshal for the District of Columbia," the following:
"or for the National Capital Service Director,".
(e) (1) Within one year after the effective date of this section, the
President is authorized and directed to submit to the Congress a report
on the feasibility and advisability of combining the Executive Protective Service and the United States Park Police within the National
Capital Service Area, and placing them under the National Capital
Service Director.
(2) Such report shall include such recommendations, including recommendations for legislative and executive action, as the President
deems necessary in carrying out the provisions of paragraph (1) of
this subsection.
(f) (1) (A) The National Capital Service Area referred to in subsection (a) is more particularly described as follows:
Beginning at that point on the present Virginia-District of
Columbia boundary due west of the northernmost point of Theodore Roosevelt Island and running due east to the eastern shore
of the Potomac River;
thence generally south along the shore at the mean high water
mark to the northwest corner of the Kennedy Center;
thence east along the north side of the Kennedy Center to a
point where it reaches the E Street Expressway;
thence east on the expressway to E Street Northwest and thence
east on E Street Northwest to Eighteenth Street Northwest;
thence south on Eighteenth Street Northwest to Constitution
Avenue Northw^est;
thence east on Constitution Avenue to Seventeenth Street Northwest ;
thence north on Seventeenth Street Northwest to Pennsylvania
Avenue Northwest;
thence east on Pennsylvania Avenue to Jackson Place Northwest ;
thence north on Jackson Place to H Street Northwest;
thence east on H Street Northwest to Madison Place Northwest;
thence south on Madison Place Northwest to Pennsylvania Avenue Northwest;
thence east on Pennsylvania Avenue Northwest to Fifteenth
Street Northwest;
thence south on Fifteenth Street Northwest to Pennsylvania
Avenue Northwest;
thence southeast on Pennsylvania Avenue Northwest to John
Mar-shall Place Northwest;
thence north on John Marshall Place Northwest to C Street
Northwest;
thence east on C Street Northwest to Third Street Northwest;
thence north on Third Street Northwest to D Street Northwest;
thence east on D Street Northwest to Second Street Northwest;
thence south on Second Street Northwest to the intersection of
Constitution Avenue Northwest and Louisiana Avenue Northwest ;
thence northeast on Louisiana Avenue NortliAvest to North Capitol Street;

87 STAT. ]

PUBLIC LAW 93-198-DEC. 24, 1973

thence north on Xortli Capitol Street to Massachusetts Avenne
Northwest;
thence southeast on Massachusetts Avenue Xoithwest so as to
encompass Union Square;
thence following Union Square to F Street Northeast ;
thence east on F Street Northeast to Second Street Northeast;
thence south on Second Street Northeast to D Street Northeast;
thence west on D Street Northeast to First Street Northeast;
thence south on First Street Northeast to Maryland Avenue
Northeast;
thence generally north and east on Maryland Avenue to Second
Street Northeast;
thence south on Second Street Northeast to C Street Southeast;
thence west on C Street Southeast to New Jersey Avenue Southeast ;
thence south on New Jersey Avenue Southeast to D Street
Southeast;
thence west on D Street Southeast to Canal Street Parkway;
thence southeast on Canal Street Pai'kway to E Street Southeast;
thence west on E Street Southeast to the intersection of Canal
Street Southwest and South Capitol Street;
thence northwest on Canal Street Southwest to Second Street
Southwest;
thence south on Second Street Southwest to Virginia Avenue
Southwest;
thence generally west on Virginia AA^enue to Third Street
Southwest;
thence north on Third Street Southwest to C Street Southwest;
thence west on C Street Southwest to Sixth Street Southwest;
thence north on Sixth Street Southwest to Independence
Avenue;
thence west on Independence A^•enue to Twelfth Street Southwest ;
thence south on Twelfth Street Southwest to D Street Southwest ;
thence west on D Street Southwest to Fourteenth Street Southwest ;
thence south on Fourteenth Street Southwest to the middle of
the Washington Channel;
thence generally south and east along the midchannel of the
Washington Channel to a point due west of the northern boundary line of Fort Lesley McNair;
thence due east to the side of the Washington Channel;
thence following gener-ally south and east along the side of
the Washington Channel at the mean high water mark, to the
point of confluence with the Anacostia River, and along the northern shore at the mean high water mark to the northern most
point of the Eleventh Street Bridge;
thence generally south and east along the northern side of the
Eleventh Street Bridge to the eastern shore of the Anacostia
River;
thence generally south and west along such shore at the mean
high water mark to the point of confluence of the Anacostia and
Potomac Rivers;
thence generally south along the eastern sliore at the mean high
water mark of the Potomac River to the point where it meets the
present southeastern boundary line of the District of Columbia;
thence south and west along such southeastern boundary line

827

828

PUBLIC LAW 93-198-DEC. 24, 1973

[87 STAT.

to the point where it meets the present Virginia-District of Columbia boundary;
thence generally north and west up the Potomac River along
the Virginia-District of Columbia boundary to the point of
beginning.
(B) Where the area in paragraph (1) is bounded by any street, such
street, and any sidew^alk thereof, shall be included wdthin such area.
(2) Any Federal real property affronting or abutting, as of the date
of the enactment of this Act, the area described in paragraph (1) shall
be deemed to be within such area.
(3) F o r the purposes of paragraph (2), Federal real property
affronting or abutting such area described in paragraph (1) shall—
(A) be deemed to include, but not limited to. F o r t Lesley
McNair, the Washington Navy Yard, the Anacostia Naval Annex,
the United States Naval Station, Boiling Air Force Base, and the
Naval Research Laboratory; and
(B) not be construed to include any area situated outside of the
District of Columbia boundary as it existed immediately prior to
the date of the enactment of this Act, nor be construed to include
any portion of the Anacostia P a r k situated east of the northern
side of the Eleventh Street Bridge, or any portion of the Rock
Creek Park.
Presidential
(g) (1) Subject to the provisious of paragraph (2) of this subsec^""•"^y"
tion, the President is authorized and directed to conduct a survey of
the area described in this section in order to establish the proper metes
ti(^^^fiirn '^^^'^"^* and bounds of such area, and to file, in such manner and at such place
as he may designate, a map and a legal description of such area, and
such description and map shall have the same force and effect as if
included in this Act, except that corrections of clerical, typographical
and other errors in any such legal descriptions and map may be made.
In conducting such survey, the President shall make such adjustments
as may be necessary in order to exclude from the National Capital
Service Area any privately owned properties, and buildings and adjacent parking facilities owned by the District of Columbia government.
(2) I n carrying out the provisions of paragraph (1) of this subsection, the President shall, to the extent that such survey, legal
description, and map involves areas comprising the United States
Capitol Buildings and Grounds as defined in sections 1 and 16 of the
g^6o^stat.^7^i8;
^^^t of July 31, 1946, as amended (40 U.S.C. 193a and 193m), and
D.c. Code
other buildings and grounds under the care of the Architect of the
9-118, 9-132.
Clapitol, consult with the Architect of the Capitol.
(3) Section 1 of the Act of July 31, 1946, as amended by the Act
of October 20, 1967 (60 Stat. 718; 81 Stat. 275; 40 U.S.C. 193a), is
hereby amended to include within the definition of the United States
Capitol Gi'ounds, the following streets: "Independence Avenue from
the west curb of Fiist Street S.E. to the east curb of Fii-st Street S.W.,
New Jersey Avenue S.E. from the south curb of Independence Avenue
to the noilh curb of D Street S.E., South Capitol Street from the
south curb of Independence Avenue to the north curb of D Street;
Delaware Avenue S.W. from the south curb of C Street S.W. to the
north curb of D Street S.W., C Street from the west curb of First
Street S.E. to the intersection of First and Canal Streets, S.W., D
Street from the west curb of First Street S.E. to the intersection of
Canal Street and Dehnvare Avenue S.W., that part of First Street
Iving west of the outer face of the curb of the sidewalk on the east side
thereof from I) Street. N.E. to D Street S.E., that part of First Street
within the east and west curblines thereof extending from the north
side of Pennsyhania Avenue N.W. to the intersection of C Street
an«l Canal Stieet S.W.. includina: the two circles within such area.

87 STAT. ]

PUBLIC LAW 93-198-DEC. 24, 1973

829

Nothing in tliis .section shall be construed as repealing, or otlierwise
altering, modifying, atfecting, or superseding those provisions of
law in effect on the date immediately preceding the effective date of
title I V of this Act vesting authority in the United States Supreme
Court police and Library of Congress police to make arrests in adjacent
streets, including First Street N.E. and First Street S.E."'.
(4) Section 9 of the Act of July 81, 1946, as amended (40 U.S.C.
Stat. 719.
212a), is amended by deleting "or of any State," and inserting in lieu 60
D.C. Cod«
thereof a comma and the following: "of the District of Columbia, or Q-Tie
of any State,".
(5) Section 9 of such Act is fui-ther amended by deleting the following: ", with the exception of the streets and roadways shown on
the map referred to in section 1 of this Act as being under the jurisdic- ^^y^^ ^-'^^
D.C. Code
tion and control of the Commissioners of the District of Columbia.". -118.
(6) Section 14(a) of the Act of July 31, 1946, as amended (40
Stat. 720;
U.S.C. 212b), is amended by deleting: '', except on those streets and 8460
Stat. 570.
roadways shown on the map referred to in section 1 of this Act as D.C. code
being under the jurisdiction and control of the Commissioners of the 9-i3i.
District of Columbia".
(7) Section 1 of the Act of July 31, 1946, as amended (40 U.S.C.
193a), is amended by deleting " : Provided^ That those streets and
roadways in said Ignited States Capitol Grounds shown on said map
as l)eing under the jurisdiction and control of the Commissioners of
the District of Columbia shall continue under such jurisdiction and
control, and said Commissioners shall be responsible for the maintenance and improvement thereof: Provided further^'' and inserting in
lieu thereof a comma and the following: "including those streets and
roadways in said United States Capitol Grounds as shown on said
map as being under \\\& jurisdiction and control of the Commissioners of tlie Disti'ict of (/'olumbia, except that the Commissioner of the
Disti'ict of Columbia shall be responsible for the maintenance and
im})rovement of those ])orti()ns of the following streets which are situated between the curblines thereof: Constitution Avenue from First
Street X.K. to Second Street X.W., First Street from D Street N.Pl to
D Stieet S.E., 1) Street from First Sti'eet S.E. to Canal Street S.W.,
and First Sti-eet fi"om the north side of Louisiana Avenue to the intersection of C Street and Canal Stieet S.W.: ProvkJed^\
(8) Section 9 of the Act of August 18. 1949, as amended (40 TJ.S.C.
13n), is amended by deleting "or of any State" and inserting in lieu es stat. eiv.
thereof a comma and the following: "any law of the District of
Columbia, or of any State,".
(9) Section 9 of the Act of August 4, 1950, as amended (2 U.S.C.
167h), is amended by deleting "or of any State" and inserting in lieu 64 stat. 412.
thereof a comma and the following: "any law of the District of
(^ohmibia, or of any State,".
( h ) ( 1 ) Except to \\\<i^ ^^i^wi specifically provided by the provisions
of this section, and amendments made by this section, nothing in this
section shall be applicable to ih^ United States Capitol Buildings and
Giounds as defined in sections 1 and 16 of the Act of July 31, 1946,
as amended (40 U.S.C. 193a. 193m), or to any other buildings and eo stat. 71s;
grounds under the care of the Architect of the Capitol, the United ^^D^c^.'code'
States Supreme Court Building and Grounds as defined in section 11 9-118, 9-132.
of the Act of August 18. 1949, as amended (40 U.S.C. 13p), and the 63 stat. 617.
Librarv of (^ongress Buildings and Grounds as defined in section 11
of the Act of August 4, 1950, as amended (2 U.S.C. 167j), and except 84^stft'^3*oV^'
to the extent herein specifically provided, including amendments made
by this section, nothing in this section shall be construed to repeal,
amend, alter, modify, or supersede any provision of the Act of July 31,
1946, as amended (40 TJ.S.C. 193a et seq.), or any other of the general

830

Services and
abuity.^^' ^^^'

U.S. l a w s , ap
plicability.

PUBLIC LAW 93-198-DEC. 24, 1973

laws of the United States or any of the laws enacted by the Congress
and applicable exclusively to the District of Columbia, or any rule or
regulation promulgated pursuant thereto, in effect on the date immediately preceding the effective date of title I V of this Act pertaining to
said buildings and grounds, or any existing authority, with respect
to such buildings and grounds, vested by law, or otherwise, on such
date immediately preceding such effective date, in the Senate, the
House of Representatives, the Congress, or any committee or commission or board thereof, the Architect of the Capitol, or any other officer
of the legislative branch, the Chief Justice of the United States, the
Marshal of the Supreme Court of the Linited States, or the I-ibrarian
of Congress.
^2) Notwithstanding the foregoing provision of this section, any of
the services and facilities authorized by this Act to be rendered or
furnished (including maintenance of streets and highways, and services under section 731 of this Act) shall, as far as practicable, be made
available to the Senate, the House of Representatives, the Congress,
or any committee or commission or board thereof, the Architect of
the Capitol, or any other officer of the legislative branch vested by
law or otherwise on such date immediately preceding the effective
date of title I V of this Act with authority over such buildings and
grounds, the Chief Justice of the United States, the Marshal of the
Supreme Court of the United States, and the Librarian of Congress,
upon their request, and, if payment would be required for the rendition or furnishing of a similar service or facility to any other Federal
agency, payment therefor shall be made by the recipient thereof, upon
presentation of proper vouchers, in advance or by reimbursement (as
may be agreed upon by the parties rendering and receiving such
services).
(i) Except to the extent otherwise specifically provided in the provisions of this section, and amendments made by this section, all
general laws of the Ignited States and all laws enacted by the Congress and applicable exclusively to the District of Columbia, including regulations and rules promulgated pureuant thereto, in effect on
the date immediately preceding the effective date of title I V of this
Act and which, on such date immediately preceding the effective date
of such title, are applicable to and within the areas included within
the National Capital Service Area pursuant to this section shall, on
and after such effective date, continue to be applicable to and within
such National Capital Service Area in the same manner and to the
same extent as if this section had not been enacted, and shall remain
so applicable until such time as they are repealed, amended, altered,
modified, or superseded, and such laws, regulations and rules shall
thereafter be applicable to and within such area in the manner and
to the extent so pro\ided by any such amendment, alteration, or
modification.
(j) In no case shall any person be denied the right to vote or otherwise participate in any manner in any election in the District of Columbia solely because such person resides within the National Capital
Service Area.
KlVrKROEXCY CONTROL OF

Limitation.

[87 STAT.

POLICE

SEC. 740. (a) Notwithstanding any other provision of law, whenover the I'resident of the United States determines that special conditions of an emergency nature exist which require the use of the
Metropolitan Police force for Federal purposes, he may direct the
Mayor to pi-ovide him, and the Mayor shall provide, such services
of the Metropolitan Police force as the President may deem necessary
.l^^^\ appi'opriato. In no case, however, shall such services made avail-

87

STAT.]

PUBLIC LAW 93-198-DEC. 24, 1973

able pureuaiit to any such direction under this subsection extend for
a period in excess of forty-eight hours unless the President has, prior
to the expiration of such period, notified the Chairman and ranking
minority Members of the Committees on the District of Columbia of
the Senate and the House of Representatives, in writing, as to the
reason for such direction and the period of time during which the
need for such services is likely to continue.
(b) Subject to the provisions of subsection (c) of this section, such
services made available in accordance with subsection (a) of this
section shall terminate upon the end of such emergency, the expiration
of a period of thirty days following the date oh which such services are
first made available, or the adoption of a resolution by either the
Senate or the House of Representatives providing for such termination, whichever first occurs.
(c) Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions of this section, in
any case in which such services are made available in accordance with
the provisions of subsection (a) of this section during any period of
an adjournment of the Congress sine die, such services shall terminate
upon the end of the emergency, the expiration of the thirty-day period
following the date on which Congress first convenes following such
adjournment, or the adoption of a resolution by either the Senate or
the House of Representatives providing for such termination, whichever first occurs,
(d) Except to the extent provided for in subsection (c) of this section, no such services made available pursuant to the direction of the
President pursuant to subsection (a) of this section shall extend for
any period in excess of thirty days, unless the Senate and the House of
Representatives approve a concurrent resolution authorizing such an
extension.
HOLDING OFFICE IN THE DISTRICT

SEC. 741. Notwithstanding any other provision of law, no person
who is otherwise qualified to hold the office of Chairman or member of
the Council or Mayor shall be disqualified from being a candidate for
such office by reason of his employment in the competitive or excepted
service of the United States. For the purposes of this section, a person
shall be deemed to be a candidate on and after the date he qualifies
under applicable provisions of law in the District to have his name
placed on the ballot in either a primary or general election for the
office for which he is a candidate. Such candidacy shall terminate—
(1) with respect to a person w^ho has been defeated in a primary
election held to nominate candidates for the office for which he
is a candidate, on the day of such primary elex'tion ;
(2) with respect to a person who is defeated in the general
election held for the office for which he is a candidate, on the date
of such general election; and
(3) with respect to a person who is elected in the general election held for the office for which he is a candidate, on the date
such person assumes such office.
OPEN MEETINGS

SEC. 742. (a) All meetings (including hearings) of any department, agency, board, or commission of the District government, including meetings of the District Council, at which official action of any
kind is taken shall be open to the public. No resolution, rule, act,
regulation or other official action shall be effective unless taken, made,
or enacted at such meeting.

831

Notification requirement.

Termination.

Extension.

832

PUBLIC LAW 93-198-DEC. 24, 1973

Written transcript, availability.

[87

STAT.

(b) A written transcript or a transcription shall be kept for all
such meetings and shall be made available to the public during normal
business hours of the District government. Copies of such written
transcripts or copies of such transcriptions shall be available upon
request to the public at reasonable cost.
TERMINA'J'ION O F T H E DISTRICT'S A U T H O R I T Y TO BORROW FROM T H E
TREASURY

Loan payment
obligation.

SEC. 743. (a) The first section of the Act entitled "An Act to
authorize the Commissioners of the District of Columbia to borrow
funds for capital improvement programs and to amend provisions of
law relating to Federal Government participa;tion in meeting costs of
maintaining the Nation's Capital City", approved June 6, 1958 (72
Stat. 183; D.C. Code, sec. 9-220), is amended by striking out subsections ( b ) , ( c ) , ( d ) , and ( e ) .
(b) The x\^ct entitled "An Act authorizing loans from the United
States Treasury for the expansion of the District of Columbia water
system", approved June 2,1950 (60 Stat. 195; D.C. Code, sec. 43-1540),
is repealed.
(c) Title I I of the Act entitled "An Act to authorize the financing of
a program of public works construction for the District of Columbia,
and for other purposes", approved May 18, 1954 (68 Stat. 108), is
amended by striking out sections 213, 214, 216, 217, and 218 (D.C.
(^ode, sections 43-1612, 43-1613, 43-1615, 43-1616, and 43-1617),
authorizing loans from the United States Treasury for sanitary and
combined sewer systems of the District.
(d) Section 402 of title I V of such Act approved May 18,1954 (68
Stat. 110; D.C. Code, sec. 7-133), authorizing loans from the United
States Treasury for the District of Columbia highway construction
program, is repealed.
(e) Nothing contained in this section shall be deemed to relieve the
District of its obligation to repay any loan made to it under the authority of the Acts specified in the preceding subsections, nor to preclude
the District from using the unexpended balance of any such loan
appi'opriated to the District prior to the effective date of this provision, nor to prevent the District from fulfilling the provisions of
section 722.
PART E — A M E N D M E N T S TO THE DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA ELECTION A C T
AMENDMENTS

69 Stat. 699;
J5 Stat. 788.

Ante,

p . 311.

Definitions.

SEC. 751. The District of Columbia Election Act (D.C. Code, sees.
1 1101—1-1115) is amended as follows:
(1) The first section of such Act (D.C. Code, sec. 1-1101) is
amended by inserting immediately after "Board of Education,", the
following: '*the members of the Council of the Distiict of Columbia,
the Mayor".
(2) Section 2 of such Act (D.C. Code, sec. 1-1102) is amended by
adding at the end thereof the following new paragraphs:
"(8) The term 'Council' or 'Council of the District of Columbia'
means the (^ouncil of the District of Columbia established pursuant to
the Distiict of (^olumbia Self-Government and Governmental Reorganization Act.
"(9) The term 'Mayor' means the office of Mayor of the District of
Oihnnbia established pursuant to the District of Columbia SelfGovernniiMit and Go\ernmental Reorganization Act."

87 STAT. ]

PUBLIC LAW 93-198-DEC. 24, 1973

833

(3) Subsections ( h ) , ( i ) , ( j ) , a n d (k) of section 8 of such Act (D.C.
Code, sec. 1-1108) are amended to read as follows:
^
ss^stf rV/o*^'
" ( h ) (1) (A) The Delegate, Mayor, Chairman of the District Coun- Ante^p. 312', 313.
oil and the four at-large members of the Council shall be elected by jj^limln* o'f'^he°''
the registered qualified electors of the District of Columbia in a gen- Dirtri'^t'councu
eral election. Each candidate for the office of Delegate, Mayor, Chair- and at-iarge memman of the District Council, and at-large members of the Council in ^^"' election,,
any general election shall, except as otherwise provided in subsection
(j) of this section and section 10(d), have been elected by the regis- g^l^ll^*^^^°^'
tered qualified electors of the District as such candidate by the next D.c.'code'
precedmg primary election.
1-1110.
" (B) (i) A member of the office of Council (other than the Chairman
and any member elected at large) shall be elected in a general election
by the registered qualified electors of the respective ward of the District from which the individual seeking such office was elected as a
candidate for such office as provided in clause (ii) of this paragraph.
"(ii) Each candidate for the office of member of the Council
(other than Chairman and at-large members) shall, except as otherwise provided in subsection (j) of this section and section 10(d), have
been elected as such a candidate, by the registered qualified electors of
the ward of the District from which such individual was nominated,
at the next preceding primary election to fill such office within that
ward.
"(2) The nomination and election of any individual to the office of
Delegate, Mayor, Chairman of the Council and member of the Council
shall be governed by the provisions of this Act. No political party Restrictions.
shall be qualified to hold a primary election to select candidates for
election to any such office in a general election unless, in the next preceding election year, at least seven thousand five hundred votes were
cast in the general election for a candidate of such party for any such
office or for its candidates for electors of President and Vice President.
" ( i ) (1) Each individual in a primary election for candidate for the „Jj'°t"^^''°"
office of Delegate, Mayor, Chairman of the Council, or at-large mem- petition.
ber of the Council shall be nominated for any such office by a petition
(A) filed with the Board not later than sixty days before the date of
such primary election, and (B) signed by at least two thousand registered qualified electors of the same political party as the nominee, or
by 1 per centum of the duly registered members of such political party,
whichever is less, as shown by the records of the Board of Elections as
of the one hundred fourteenth day before the date of such election.
"(2) Each individual in a primary election for candidate for the
office of member of the Council (other than the Chairman and at-large
members) shall be nominated for such office by a petition (A) filed
with the Board not later than sixty days before the date of such primary election, and (B) signed by at least two hundred and fifty persons in the ward from which such individual seeks election who are
69
Stat. ^^
700;
duly registered in such ward under section 7 of this Act, and who are _
_^^^
85 Stat. 790, 7 9 5 .
of the same political party as the nominee.
""D"C.'co'de'
"(3) A nominating petition for a candidate in a primary election ^-^o^.
for any such office may not be circulated for signature before the one lation^. ^°"' ''"^'^'
hundred fourteenth day preceding the date of such election and may
not be filed with the Board before the eighty-fifth day preceding such
date. The Board may prescribe rules with respect to the preparation
and presentation of nominating petitions. The Board shall arrange
the ballot of each political party in each such primary election as to
enable a voter of such party to vote for nominated candidates of that
party.
"(j) (1) A duly qualified candidate for the office of Delegate, Mayor,
Chairman of the Council, or member of the Council may, subject to

22-150 O - 75 - 55

834

PUBLIC LAW 93-198-DEC. 24, 1973

69 Stat. 700;
D.c^. Code
1-1107.

69 Stat. 702.
l
"
*
^
^
*
^
^
^
*
' f ^^*
D C

Code

1-1 i 10.

D^c.'^code^*
1-1110.
tion
dates.
Z^^Tf/L^^^'^'

[87 STAT.

tlie provisions of this subsection, be nominated directly as sucli a candidate for election for such office (including any such election t o b e
held to fill a vacancy). Such person shall be nominated by petition
(A) filed with the Board not less than sixty days before the date of
such general election, and (B) in the case of a person who is a candidate for the office of member of the Council (other than the Chairman
or an at-large member), signed by five hundred voters who are duly
registered under section 7 in the ward from which the candidate seeks
election; and in the case of a person who is a candidate for the office
of Delegate, Mayor, Chairman of the Council, or at-large member of
the Council, signed by duly registered voters equal in number to l^^
per centum of the total number of registered voters in the District, as
shown by the records of the Board as of one hundred fourteen days
before the date of such election, or by three thousand persons duly
registered under section 7, whichever is less. No signatures on such a
petition may be counted which have been made on such petition more
than one hundred fourteen days before the date of such election.
''(2) Nominations under this subsection for candidates for election
in a general election to any office referred to in paragraph (1) shall
be of no force and eifect with respect to any person whose name has
appeared on the l)allot of a primary election for that office held within
eight months before the date of such general election.
'"(k) (1) In each general election for the office of member of the
Council (other than the office of the Chairman or an at-large member)
the Board shall arrange the ballots in each ward to enable a voter
registered in that ward to vote for any one candidate who (A) has
l)een duly elected by any political party in the next preceding primary election for such office from such ward, (B) has been duly
nominated to fill a vacancy in such office in such ward pursuant to sec{[QJJ 10(d), or (C) lias been nominated directly as a candidate for such
office in such ward under subsection (i) of this section.
•

>J /

" (2) I n each general election for the office of Chairman and member
of the Council at hirge, the Board shall arrange the ballots to enable a
registered qualified elector to vote for as many candidates for election
as members at large as there are members at large to be elected in such
election, including the Chairman. Such candidates shall be only those
persons who (A) have been duly elected by any political party in the
next preceding primary election for such office, (B) have been duly
nominated to fill vacancies in such office pursuant to section 10(d), or
(C) have been nominated dii-ectly as a candidate under subsection
(j) of this section.
'•(B) In each general election for the office of Delegate and Mayor,
the Board shall arrange the ballots to enable a registered qualified
elector to vote for any one of the candidates for any such office who
(X) has been duly elected by any political party in the next preceding
primary election for such office, (B) has been duly nominated to fill a
vacancy in such office pursuant to section 10(d), or (C) has been nominated directly as a candidate under subsection (j) of this section.".
(4) Paragraph (8) of section 10(a) of such Act (D.C. Code, sec.
1-1110) is amended (1) by inserting " ( A ) " immediately before the
word "Except", and (2) by adding at the end thereof the following:
"(I^) Except as otherwise provided in the case of special elections
under this Act pi-imary elections of each political party for the office
of member of the Council shall be held on the fii-st Tuesday after the
second Monday in September in 1974, and every second year thereafter, and general election for such offices shall be held on the first
Tuesdav' after the fii'st ^Monday in November in 1974 and every second vear thereafter.

87 STAT. ]

PUBLIC LAW 93-198-DEC. 24, 1973

835

''(C) P^xcept as otherwise provided in the case of a special election
under this Act, primary elections of each political party for the office
of Mayor and Chairman shall be held on the first Tuesday after the
second ^Vfonday in September of every fourth year, commencing with
calendar year 1974, and the general election for such office shall be
held on the first Tuesday after the first Monday in November in 1974
and every fourtli year thereafter.",
(5) Paragraphs (6), (7), (8), and (9) of section 10(a) of such Act R^P^^I^(l).(^. Code, sec. 1-1110) are repealed, and paragraphs (4) and (5) of 69 stat. 702;
such section 10(a) are amended to read as follows:
^'^ ^'^'' ^^°'
•' (4) With respect to special elections required or authorized by this ^^^^^^'^^ ^^'"'"
Act, the Board may establish the dates on which such special elections
are to be held and j^rescribe such other terms and conditions as may,
in the Board's opinion, be necessary or appropriate for the conduct of
such elections in a manner comparable to that prescribed for other
elections held pursuant to this Act.
elec•' (5) General elections for members of the Board of Education shall t i oGeneral
ns.
be held on the first Tuesday after the first Monday in Xo^•ember of
each odd-numbered calendar year.''
(6) Section 10(b) of such Act (D.C. Code, sec. 1-1110) is amended
by striking out '"other than general elections for the Office of Delegate
and for members of the Board of Education.".
(7) Section 10(c) of such Act (D.C. Code, sec. 1-1110) is amended
by striking out the words "other than an election for members of the
Board of Education".
(8) Section 10(d) of such Act (D.C. Code, sec. 1-1110) is amended
to i-ead as follows:
" ( d ) In the event that any official, other than the Delegate, Mayor, succession.
member of the (^ouncil. member of the Board of Education, or a winnei* of a primary election for the office of Delegate, Mayor, or member
of the Council, elected pursuant to this Act dies, i-esigns. or becomes
unable to serve duiing his or her term of office leaving no person
elected j)nrsuant to this Act to serve the remainder of the unexpired
term of office, the successor or successors to serve the remainder of such
term shall be chosen pursuant to the rules of the duly authorized party
committee, except that such successor shall have the qualifications
recjuired by this Act for such office. In the event that sucli a vacancy vacancies.
occurs in the office of a candidate for the office of Delegate, Mayor,
or member of the Council who has been declared the winner in the
preceding primary election of such office, the vacancy may be filled not
later than fifteen days prior to the next general election for such office,
by nomination by the party committee of the party which nominated
his predecessor. I n the e\ent that such a vacancy occurs in the office of
Delegate more than eight months before the expiration of its term of
office, the I^oard shall call special elections to fill such vacancy for the
remainder of its term of office."
(9) The first sentence of section 15 of such Act (D.C. Code, sec.
1-1115) is amended to read as follows: "No person shall be a candi- §2 stat. 106
date for more than one office on the Board of Education or the Council
in any election for members of the Board of Education or Council,
and no person shall be a candidate for more than one office on the
Council in any pi'imary election."
(10) Section 15 of such Act (D.C. Code, sec. 1-1115) is further
amended (1) by designating the existing text of such section as subsection (a), ajid (2) by adding at the end thereof the following new
subsection:
" (b) No person who is holding the office of Mayor, Delegate, Chairman or member of the Council, or member of the School Board shall,
while holding such office, be eligible as a candidate for anv other of

836

PUBLIC LAW 93-199-DEC. 26, 1973

[87 STAT.

such offices in any primary or general election, unless the term of the
office which he so holds expires on or prior to the date on which he
would be eligible, if elected in such primary or general election, to
take the office with respect to which such election is held."
DISTRICT C O U N C I L A U T H O R I T Y OVER ELECTIONS

SEC. 752. Notwithstanding any other provision of this Act or of
any other law, the Council shall have authority to enact any act or
resolution with respect to matters involving or relating to elections in
the District.
PART F — R U L E S OF CONSTRUCTION
CONSTRUCTION

SEC. 761. To the extent that any provisions of this Act are inconsistent with the provisions of any other laws the provisions of this
Act shall prevail and shall be deemed to supersede the provisions of
such laws.
PART G—^EFFECTIVE DATES
EFFECTIVE DATES

SEC. 771. (a) Titles I and V, and parts A and G, and section 722,
of title V I I shall take effect on the date of enactment of this Act.
(b) Title I I shall take effect on July 1, 1974, except that any provision thereof which in effect transfers authority to appoint any citizen member of the National Capital Planning Commission or the
District of Columbia Redevelopment Land Agency shall take effect
on January 2, 1975.
(c) Titles I I I and I V shall take effect January 2, 1975, if title I V
is accepted by a majority of the registered qualified electors in the
District of Columbia voting on the charter issue in the charter
referendum.
(d) Title V I and parts B , D, and F , and sections 721 and 723, of
title V I I shall take effect only if and upon the date that title I V
becomes effective.
(e) P a r t E of title V I I shall take effect on the date on which title I V
is accepted by a majority of the registered qualified electors in the
District voting on the charter issue in the charter referendum.
Approved December 24, 1973.
Public Law 93-199
December 26, 1973

[H. R. 11088]

AN

ACT

IJIQ provide emergency security assistance authorizations for Israel and
Cambodia.

Be it enacted hy the Senate and House of Representatives of the
_ Emergency
United States of America in Congress assembled^ That this Act may
ecurity
ssis
- ^^ cltcd as the "Emergency Security Assistance Act of 1973".
an
c e Act of
1973.
SEC. 2. I n addition to such amounts as may be otherwise authorized
to be appropriated to the President for security assistance for the
fiscal year 1974, there are hereby authorized to be appropriated to the

